                                   92230 v2
                                        ANNEXES




                      Kazakhstan

   Agricultural Insurance Feasibility Study




October 2011

The World Bank



     THE WORLD BANK
                                                Table of Contents
Executive Summary ......................................................................................................... iii
  Context and Scope of the Study ..................................................................................... iii
  Crop Risk Assessment .................................................................................................... v
  Review of Compulsory Crop Insurance Program .......................................................... vi
  Strategy and Options for Strengthening the Current Crop Insurance Scheme ............... x
  Opportunities for New Crop Insurance Products ....................................................... xxiii
  Tailoring Crop Insurance to the Needs of Small Farmers in South Kazakhstan ....... xxix
Chapter 1:          Introduction and Objectives of the Study .......................................... 32
  Importance of Agriculture in Kazakhstan ..................................................................... 32
  Agricultural Crop Production in Kazakhstan ................................................................ 33
  Government Policy for Agriculture .............................................................................. 35
  Exposure of Agriculture to Natural and Climatic Disasters ......................................... 35
  Government objectives for crop insurance ................................................................... 36
  Objectives and scope of the study................................................................................. 37
  Report Outline............................................................................................................... 39
Chapter 2: Crop and Weather Risk Assessment ......................................................... 40
  Objectives and Scope of Agricultural Crop and Weather Risk Assessment ................ 40
  Data Availability for Crop and Weather Risk Assessment ........................................... 40
  Climate and Agro-ecological Regions .......................................................................... 43
  Overview of Spring Wheat Crop Production in Kazakhstan ........................................ 45
  Key Climatic Perils and Impact on Crop Production and Yields ................................. 51
  Assessment of crop production risk exposures ............................................................. 55
Chapter 3: Review of Kazakhstan Crop Insurance Program .................................... 60
  Policy and Regulatory Framework for Crop Insurance ................................................ 60
  Compulsory Crop Insurance Policy Terms and Conditions ......................................... 61
  Government Financial Support to Crop Insurance in Kazakhstan................................ 68
  Performance Assessment: Technical Results, Liabilities, Reinsurance........................ 69
  Assessment of the Technical, Operational and Institutional Features of the Compulsory
  Crop Insurance Program ............................................................................................... 82
  Evaluation of Crop Insurance Effectiveness for Key Stakeholders .............................. 87
Chapter 4: Strategy and Options for Strengthening the Current Crop Insurance
Program ........................................................................................................................... 90
  Phase 1: Returning the Obligatory Crop Insurance Scheme to Profitability and
  Financial Stability ......................................................................................................... 91
  Phase 2: Transition towards a Market-based Crop Insurance System ........................ 108
  Phase 3- Transformation into a fully Commercial Crop Insurance Scheme for
  Kazakhstan .................................................................................................................. 118
Chapter 5: Opportunities for New Crop Insurance Products .................................. 134
  Named Peril Crop Insurance ....................................................................................... 134
  Area-Yield Index Crop Insurance ............................................................................... 140
  Crop Weather Index Insurance ................................................................................... 154
Chapter 6: Tailoring Crop Insurance to the Needs of Lower Income Smaller
Farmers .......................................................................................................................... 174
  Identification of Appropriate Crop Insurance Products .............................................. 174
 Tailoring Crop Insurance for Different Client Levels ................................................ 177
 Organisational and Operational Systems for Small Farmer Crop Insurance .............. 183
 Identification of Operational Linkages to Bundle Programs ...................................... 190
Annexes .......................................................................................................................... 194
 Annex 1: Spring Wheat Production Systems in Kazakhstan and Crop Risk
 Assessment ................................................................................................................. 195
 Annex 2: Mandatory Crop Insurance Program Statutory Features ................... 233
 Annex 3: Kazakhstan: Mandatory Crop Insurance Results ................................ 255
 Annex 4: Individual Grower MPCI Opportunities for Kazakhstan .................... 275
 Annex 5: International Experience with Crop Insurance Pools ........................... 289
 Annex 6: Named Peril Crop Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan ................ 297
 Annex 7: Area-Yield Index Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan.................. 302
 Annex 8: Weather Index Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan..................... 325



     Disclaimer:
     This volume is a product of the staff of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development /
     The World Bank. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper do not necessarily
     reflect the views of the Executive Directors of The World Bank or the governments they represent.

     The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the crop production and yield data and crop insurance
     financial data included in this work and on which basis some analyses have been made and from which
     some conclusions have been drawn and recommendations made. The World Bank cannot be held
     responsible for any insurance result or other financial outcome which might arise from any decisions or
     actions taken by Insurers or any other party as a consequence of the contents of this report. The
     boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not imply
     any judgement on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the
     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                          ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The report was prepared by the World Bank in partnership with the Second Agriculture Post
Privatization Assistance Project (APPAPII) and was authored by a team led by Sandra Broka
(Senior Rural Finance Specialist, ECSS1, World Bank) and Meiram Akchukakov (Program
Coordinator APPAP II). The team was comprised of Ramiro Iturrioz (Senior Agricultural
Insurance Specialist, Insurance for the Poor Program, GCMNB, World Bank – Technical
Leader); Talimjan Urasov (Operations Office, ECSS1, World Bank); Charles Stutley (Consultant,
ARMT, ARD, World Bank); and Andrea Stoppa (Consultant, ARMT, ARD, World Bank);
Bakhyt Sattybaeva (Consultant, APPAPII); Lunara Umralinova (Consultant, APPAP II); Marina
Gabdulinova (Consultant, APPAPII); Aigerim Malik (Consultant, APPAPII), and ARKA
Consulting the local consultant firm appointed by APPAPII for this project.

The team acknowledges the contributions of all stakeholders, including the Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA), and in particular, the Department of Investment Policy and External
Relations and the Department of Strategic Planning in Agribusiness and Innovation Policy; JSC
Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture, Hydro Meteorological Service of Kazakhstan
(Kazhydromet); National Statistics Agency, Agency for Financial Market and Financial
Institutions Regulation and Control RK, National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
JSC, Union of Farmers of Kazakhstan, Scientific Research Institute of Economy of Agro-
Industrial Complex and Development of Rural Territories, A.Barayev Kazakh Scientific &
Research Institute of Grain Farming; Akimat of Enbekshilder Rayon; Akimat of Bulandinskky
Rayon; Akimat of Altynsarin Rayon, KazakhInstrakh Halyk Group Insurance Company; JSC
Insurance Company ―Pana Insurance‖; JSC Grain Insurance Company; ―Agro-Insurance‖ Mutual
Insurance Society; ―SFK-Insurance‖ Mutual Insurance Society ―Dostyk 05‖ Co Ltd.

The authors are grateful to the peer reviewers John Nash (Lead Economist, LCSSD, World
Bank), Olivier Mahul (Program Coordinator; FCMNB, World Bank); Gary Reusche (Operations
Officer, IFC); and Vikas Chaudhary (Agriculture Specialist, ARD, World Bank).

The team gratefully acknowledges funding support from the Commodity Risk Management
Multi-donor Trust Fund.




                                            -i-
                  ABBREVIATIONS

APPAP II   Second Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project
ARKS       National Agency of Statistics Republic of Kazakhstan
AYII       Area-yield index insurance
CRAM       Crop Risk Assessment Model
Centner    Grain production unit equivalent to 100 Kilograms
CF         Commercial Farmer (usually with between 100 Ha and 1000 Ha). Also
           termed Individual Farm or Peasant Farm.
CTL        Constructive Total Loss clause (used to define a total crop loss)
CWII       Crop Weather Index Insurance
CoV        Coefficient of Variation
EKO        East Kazakhstan Oblast
ENSO       El Niño Southern Oscillation
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FFSA       Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture
FMCIA      Farmer‘s Mutual Crop Insurance Association
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GRK        Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
KHM        Hydro Meteorological Service of Kazakhstan (alternatively known as
           Kazhydromet)
KZT        Kazakhstan Tenge (monetary currency of Kazakhstan)
IU         Insured Unit
LIC        Loss of Investment Costs (crop insurance policy)
MFI        Microfinance Institutions
MoA        Ministry of Agriculture
MoF        Ministry of Finance
MPCI       Multiple Peril Crop Insurance
MT         Metric Tonne equivalent to 1,000 Kilograms
NSA        National Space Agency
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NKO        North Kazakhstan Oblast
Oblast     Administrative region of Kazakhstan
PE         Production Enterprise (Large grain farm usually with greater than 1,000
           Ha). Also termed Agricultural Enterprise.
PML        Probable Maximum Loss
PPP        Private-Public Partnership
Rayon      Administrative area within an Oblast
RK         Republic of Kazakhstan
SKO        South Kazakhstan Oblast
TSI        Total Sum Insured
TSU        Technical Support Unit
VAR        Value at Risk
WKO        West Kazakhstan Oblast
WII        Weather Index Insurance




                               - ii -
                                    Executive Summary

Context and Scope of the Study
1.      Agriculture is a very important socio-economic sector in Kazakhstan. Agriculture
occupies a key position in the economy of Kazakhstan: approximately 7.3 million people (47.2
percent of the total population) currently live in rural areas and agriculture employs more than
22% of the labour force in the country. Agriculture contributes 5.92 percent of Kazakhstan‘s
GDP. The country is one of the major global producers and exporters of grains (mainly wheat).
Other principal agricultural products include meat, wool, cotton and milk. Farming areas occupy
more than 220 million hectares (about 74% of the country's total area), of which cereal growing
areas occupy about 13-14 million hectares. The major grain crop is spring wheat which is
predominantly grown under extensive low-cost production systems in northern and central
Kazakhstan.

2.      In northern and central Kazakhstan spring wheat production and yields are highly
influenced by climatic and biological factors. On account of the very uncertain climatic
conditions, Kazakhstan has the highest year on year variation in national average wheat
production and yields of any major wheat producing and exporting countries. Drought is the
most pervasive peril affecting rain-fed crop production in northern Kazakhstan and severe
droughts are experienced every two to five years. Spring wheat crops can also be damaged by
hailstorms, early autumn frost and pests and diseases of wheat. This study estimates that on
average about 14.71% of the total value of the national spring wheat crop is lost due to drought
and other perils every year, valued at KZT 66.5 billion (US$ 443 million)1 and in extreme
drought years such as 1998 physical losses were in the order of 7 million metric tons losses
equivalent to as high as 42% of the total expected value of wheat production. Very severe
drought losses have been experienced in spring wheat most recently in 2008 and again in 2010.

3.       The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan (GRK) introduced a national
compulsory crop insurance scheme in 2005 in order to provide grain producers and other
farmers with a minimum level of protection against catastrophe climatic events. The scheme was
enacted through the Compulsory Crop Insurance Law dated March 10, 2004 and became
operational in 2005. The law established the terms and conditions for the implementation of a
compulsory Loss of Investment Cost (LIC) insurance policy providing comprehensive protection
against the loss of production costs invested in growing a range of strategic grain, oilseed and
other field crops. The Kazakhstan crop insurance scheme is based on a public private partnership
(PPP) implemented by the private commercial and mutual insurance companies and supported by
government financial subsidies on claims. The implementing agencies are the Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA), through the Direction of Strategic Planning, the Fund for Financial Support
for Agriculture (FFSA), the private commercial insurance companies and the Farmers‘ Mutual
Crop Insurance Associations (FMCIA) and finally the local authorities in each Oblast and Rayon.
Under the PPP, GRK provides financial contributions to the crop insurance scheme through an
Indemnity Fund, termed the ―Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture‖ (FFSA) and
indemnifies 50% of the costs of all crop insurance claims.



1
 In this report, a current 2011 exchange rate of Kazakhstan Tenge, KZT 150 = US$ 1.00 has been used,
unless otherwise stated.


                                                 - iii -
4.      The GRK’s decision to introduce a national compulsory crop insurance scheme for the
most important crops grown in the country should be viewed in the context of government’s
policy toward agriculture. The GRK recognizes the importance of the agricultural sector in
diversifying economic growth, reducing rural poverty and in contributing towards improved food
security with a strong emphasis on maintaining rural welfare for the country‘s predominantly
small farmers, as set out in the strategic three year plan for agriculture 2009-11. Government‘s
introduction of compulsory insurance was mainly designed as a measure to ensure that small
farmers and wage-paid agricultural labourers would be guaranteed a minimum level of financial
protection in the event of catastrophe crop production losses. Since the late 1990s the government
has significantly increased its financial support to the crop sector with direct input subsidies,
subsidised credit and output-price support measures. Under its goal to meet World Trade
Organisation, WTO, accession terms, Kazakhstan will need to reduce its direct subsidies to
agriculture; however, WTO legislation does not prohibit government from increasing it financial
subsidies to agricultural crop and livestock insurance.

5.       Overall, the crop insurance scheme has not performed well. Over the past 6 years the
obligatory crop insurance scheme has achieved very high levels of uptake, but the scheme has
also encountered major operational and financial problems. Crop insurance penetration is very
high in Kazakhstan averaging 74 percent of the eligible cropped area for the period 2005-2010 –
the high uptake is a function of the compulsory nature of the scheme. Notwithstanding the high
level of penetration, insurance results have been very poor over the past three years with the
result that many commercial insurers have ceased to support the scheme. From an operational
viewpoint the scheme is very costly to administer and it is under-rated in several regions: as the
terms and conditions of cover are determined by government and fixed by law the insurance
companies have little say in risk acceptance and underwriting decisions and today only three
companies continue to support the scheme. Finally private commercial insurers and farmer‘s
mutual insurers are very exposed to catastrophe losses as the scheme is not currently reinsured
against excess losses.

6.      During 2011 a comprehensive study aimed at the review, refinement and improvement
of the current compulsory crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan has been performed by the
World Bank, under the risk management component of the Agricultural Post-privatization
Assistance project (APPAP II). The study has reviewed the Kazakhstan compulsory crop
insurance scheme and has made recommendations for its strengthening and transition over time to
a more market-based agricultural insurance system. The study has also assessed the potential to
introduce new crop insurance products and programs to complement the existing Loss of
Investment Cost (LIC) policy. The study has included the following specific components:

    a. Review of the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme in Kazakhstan. A detailed
       diagnostic review has been carried out of the technical basis of the LIC policy, the
       institutional and organizational features of the public private partnership scheme and its
       operating systems and procedures and finally the financial performance of the scheme.
       This review identified a series of key issues and challenges for scheme management to
       address.

    b. Phased strategy to transform this scheme into a financially sustainable market oriented
       system. Drawing on local expertise and international experience and best practice a
       phased strategy has been identified over the next three to five years to strengthen the
       existing compulsory crop insurance scheme, to return it to profitability and to transform
       this into a sustainable market-based system which is supported both by the public sector
       and international reinsurers.



                                              - iv -
    c. Agricultural risk assessment. A formal crop risk assessment has been performed for
       spring wheat, the most important export crop. This risk assessment was intended to assist
       policy makers, planners and crop insurers in the planning, design and rating of new crop
       insurance products. Owing to the size of the country, it was agreed that the scope of the
       risk assessment would be limited to spring wheat grown in the 8 most important Oblasts
       of Kazakhstan namely Kostanay, Akmola, North Kazakhstan (NKO), East Kazakhstan
       (EKO), West Kazakhstan (WKO), Pavlodar, Karaganda, and Aktobe.

    d. Crop insurance product development. An analysis has been conducted for spring wheat
       of four new crop insurance product types in Kazakhstan which in future may either
       complement or replace the current LIC only product including, two traditional indemnity-
       based covers, i) individual grower multiple-peril crop insurance (MPCI), and ii) crop hail
       cover and two new index-based products, iii) area yield index insurance (AYII) and iv)
       crop weather index insurance WII. For the purpose of the new product feasibility studies,
       the research was focused on spring wheat grown in Altynsarinski and Auliyekolski
       Rayons in Kostanay Oblast; Aktogaiski and Zhelezinski Rayons in Pavlodar Oblast; and
       Bulandinski and Enbekshilderski Rayons in Akmola Oblast.

    e. Challenges for developing small farmer crop insurance in Kazakhstan. The final
       objective of this study has been to identify ways to tailor the provision of crop insurance
       to the needs of resource poor farmers located in southern Kazakhstan. Tole-bi Rayon in
       SKO Oblast was selected for more in-depth study.

Crop Risk Assessment
7.       A detailed risk assessment has been conducted of weather risks and their impact on
spring wheat crop production and yields in north Kazakhstan Region. The risk assessment
comprised the following components: i) a review of the availability and quality of time-series
crop production and weather data availability in Kazakhstan for spring wheat risk assessment and
insurance design and rating purposes; ii) a review of climate and the agro-ecological regions and
spring wheat crop production systems in the selected Oblasts of Kazakhstan, iii) a detailed
statistical analysis of spring wheat production and yields and the climatic constraints to
production including an analysis of rainfall data and the relationship to national and rayon-level
spring wheat crop production and yields and finally iv) application of a Crop Risk Assessment
Model, CRAM, which uses time-series rayon-level production and yield data to estimate values
of risk, expected losses and expected claims costs for spring wheat in the eight selected Oblasts in
Kazakhstan. This latter analysis is very relevant to crop insurers‘ understanding of risk
accumulation and maximum expected losses in spring wheat. (Full results of the risk assessment
are presented in Section 2).

8.               The results of the crop risk assessment of rayon level crop production and
yields for spring wheat in the northern and central regions of Kazakhstan shows that this crop
is heavily exposed to losses caused by droughts. This is evidenced by the average loss cost
estimated by the CRAM for the 17-year period, 1994 up to 2010 of KZT 66.5 billion (14.71
percent of the total value at risk of spring wheat production) and a calculated 1 in 100 year PML
of KZT 246.8 billion (54 percent of the national spring wheat gross value of production). The
highest average annual expected losses in spring wheat apply to Aktobe Oblast (average expected
loss of 22% of the spring wheat crop value) and WKO (average losses of 40% of the spring wheat
crop value) located in western Kazakhstan. Except in a few rayons situated in the north of Aktobe
and in the south west of WKO, in most of the rayons located in these two Oblasts, spring wheat
average yields are both low and highly variable on account of the much lower and erratic rainfall



                                               -v-
experienced in western regions of Kazakhstan. Conversely, spring wheat production is much less
risky in the northern Oblasts of NKO, Kostanay and Akmola and which receive higher and more
stable precipitation.

9.       The need for accurate and independent measurement and recording of crop production
and yield data and corresponding weather data at local up to national levels is critical to the
design and rating and implementation of any crop insurance scheme. On the basis of this study
it is apparent that the GRK has very efficient Meteorological, Agricultural and Statistics Services.
The production and weather data availability for the design and rating of crop insurance products
and programs is, in general, very good. Kazakhstan has a modern and efficient national
meteorological service, Hydro Meteorological Service of Kazakhstan (alternatively known as
Kazhydromet - KHM), which has provided time series rainfall data for a sample of weather
stations in the selected rayons in order to permit a detailed assessment of rainfall and yield
relationships to be made and to provide the basis for the design and rating of prototype WII
products. There is, however, a key constraint at present namely that the density of weather
stations in such a vast territory such as Kazakhstan is inadequate to implement a national
commercial micro-level CWII scheme in the near future. Kazakhstan also has good spring wheat
crop area, production and yield statistical records at Rayon, Oblast and National levels and which
are collected by the National Agency of Statistics Republic of Kazakhstan (ARKS). This data has
enabled prototype individual grower MPCI and Area Yield Index crop insurance products to be
designed and rated for Kazakhstan. (Detailed in Sections 4 and 5).

Review of Compulsory Crop Insurance Program
10.      Section 3 of this report provides a detailed review of the technical, operational,
institutional and financial features of and challenges faced by the compulsory crop insurance
scheme.

Technical Challenges

11.      The Kazakhstan compulsory crop insurance policy is a Loss of Yield Policy which
indemnifies the Insured when the value of the harvested production falls short of the costs
invested in growing the crop due to the action of insured perils: it is also termed a “Loss of
Investment Costs” (LIC) Policy. There are several advantages of the LIC Policy including (a)
that it provides comprehensive multiple-peril crop insurance, MPCI, protection to the farmer
again the loss of his production costs invested in growing the crop and (b) that it can be used in
situations where there is inadequate or no information on individual farmer historical crop yields.
There are, however several potential drawbacks of the Loss of Investment Cost policy including
the need for in-field yield-based loss assessment where partial losses are involved and often the
difficulty of establishing objectively the salvageable amount of the crop and its sale value and
whether this salvage value exceeds the insured investment costs leading to a claim.

12.      The coverage levels provided by the LIC crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan are
extremely low and do not provide adequate levels of financial protection to the farmer in the
event of loss. Although the compulsory scheme offers a series of production costs based sums
insured varying from low costs to high costs, in practice it appears that practically all farmers in
Kazakhstan elect the cheapest or lowest sum insured coverage option of about KZT 3,500/Ha
(slightly less than US$ 25/Ha nationally for spring wheat) because they will pay the least amount
of premium for this option. However, this means that on average farmers are only insuring
between 20% to 30% of their total production costs. The very low crop insurance cover levels are
therefore, often inadequate to put farmers back into production in the event of major crop losses.



                                               - vi -
13.      The LIC crop insurance premium rating methodology in Kazakhstan should be
revised. Currently, crop insurance premium rates are calculated for each crop at an Oblast level
when they should to be calculated at Rayon level or even higher levels of disaggregation in order
to take into account differences in risk either at the local Rayon level or at the individual farmer
level. Crop insurance premium rates are fixed by Law: these rates were last adjusted in 2008 and
now need to be adjusted on an actuarial basis. Crop insurance premium rates are set for each crop
type and group of Oblasts according to minimum and maximum rates and the Insurers are not
permitted to charge higher rates even if these are actuarially required.

14.     The basis of indemnity on the LIC Policy requires strengthening. Crop output
valuation prices are determined at the time of harvest as opposed to being pre-agreed and
specified in the policy wording. This means that neither the insurers nor the government can
calculate their liability in the event of claims: when output prices for what are low the policy is
much more exposed to losses than when wheat prices are high. This issue should be addressed by
introducing fixed agreed harvest valuation prices at the time of signing the policy agreement.

Operational Challenges

15.     The obligatory nature of the Scheme prevents underwriters from exercising proper risk
selection and control over the underwriting of their crop insurance portfolios ..Insurance
companies are obliged to accept all crop insurance risks (individual farmers) even where these are
poor risks (i.e. they do not observe the correct crop production and husbandry practices for
growing the insured crop) and / or where they are located in such high risk areas that they would
normally be considered uninsurable by commercial crop insurers.

16.     Policy sales are currently permitted to continue up to the time of sowing when farmers
are in a good position to predict whether the growing season will be poor and this exposes the
program to moral hazard. Where pre-existing drought conditions are developing farmers may
modify their behavior by (a) they elect to buy the maximum ―Normative Costs‖ Sum Insured
level in the expectation of receiving a claims payment and (b) they may incur less than their
normal levels of expenditure on crop husbandry and inputs because they know they are likely to
lose their crops and in which case they can expect to claim on their insurance policies (this is
termed moral hazard).

17.      Private Insurance Companies do not have their own networks of locally based
qualified agronomists to conduct pre-inspections on the insured farms at the time of sowing in
order to confirm whether the farmer has complied with the correct sowing practices, seed rates
etc. As such cover is open to moral hazard. The costs of establishing such a network and in
inspecting each and every farm would be prohibitively expensive to the insurers, and under the
current rating system they are not able to increase rates to cover their A&O expenses.

18.      Loss adjustment requires the participation of several parties, it is expensive, and
sometimes lacks transparency. In Kazakhstan up to 5 persons are involved in adjusting the crop
losses at the local level and this is a very time consuming and costly exercise. There is a need to
rationalize the loss assessment procedure and to reduce the costs of this exercise.

Institutional Challenges

19.     The Kazakhstan compulsory Crop Insurance scheme represents a public-private
partnership (PPP) which is highly regulated by government and underwritten by the private
commercial (and mutual) insurance sectors, with financial claims subsidy support provided by
government through the FFSA. As such the insurance companies are unable to accept or reject


                                              - vii -
individual crop risks (farmers), which is a fundamental principle of crop underwriting. In most
countries where governments support agricultural insurance PPP‘s their main function is to
provide legal and regulatory support and financial subsidies.

20.     Crop insurance in Kazakhstan is written by Commercial Insurers and Farmers’
mutual insurance associations. The level of participation of the private insurance companies
owing to the poor underwriting results of the scheme is very low (only three commercial insurers
continue to operate in the scheme) and there is a danger that unless the scheme can be returned to
profitability the private insurance sector companies may cease to provide their support in future.
Conversely, the participation of Farmer‘s Mutual Crop Insurance Associations is gaining
importance in the scheme. As of 2011, there are more than 38 farmers‘ mutual insurance
associations offering crop insurance in Kazakhstan.

21.     Private insurance companies and farmer’ mutual associations providing crop
insurance are not equally regulated. While private insurance companies are subject to the
regulation of the Agency for Financial Market and Financial Regulation and Control, the farmers‘
mutual crop insurance associations are regulated separately by the law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan on Mutual Insurance. Non-life Private insurance companies are required to have a
minimum capital of KZT 1.2 billion (US$ 8.0 million) in order to operate. On top of the
minimum capital requirements, private insurance companies are frequently monitored on their
solvency, net retentions, and the implementation of risk management procedures. Conversely, the
farmers‘ mutual associations offering crop insurance are not regulated and supervised by the
Agency for Financial Market and Financial Regulation and Control. Therefore, farmers‘ mutu al
associations are not subject to any minimum capital requirements, or controls over net retentions
and solvency requirements. In 2010 it is understood that several mutuals had not collected
enough premiums to pay the full amount of claims incurred during the crop season 2010. There
is a need to ensure that the private companies and mutuals are regulated equally under the crop
insurance scheme.

Government Support

22.      GRK provides major financial support to the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme.
This support is provided in two ways by i) compensating the Insurers for 50% of all the claims
incurred and ii) funding of the administration and operating expenses of the Fund for Financial
Support for Agriculture, FFSA. The 50% claims compensation fund is administered by the
FFSA which is responsible for monitoring and managing the financial transactions on this
insurance scheme on behalf of government and for approving the claims reimbursements to
individual insurance companies. Over the past 6 years, GRK has provided KZT 4.7 billion to the
FFSA of which 93% has been allocated to settling the 50% of claims and 9% to the A&O
expenses of the FFSA. During this period the FFA has reimbursed the Insurance Companies a
total of KZT 3.84 billion equivalent to 46.7% of total paid claims or an average of KZT 641
million per year (US$4.3 million per year).

Financial Challenges

23.      The compulsory crop insurance program in Kazakhstan has experienced poor overall
underwriting results over the period 2005 to 2010. The long-term average loss ratio for the 6-
year period 2005-2010 is 140% and in four of the six years the scheme has operated at a financial
loss in terms of the gross claims to premium or loss ratio exceeding 100%. The average net loss
ratio to the insurance companies after the reimbursement of 50 percent insurance losses (claims)
from the government is 75%. Over the past three years (2008 to 2010), the results have



                                             - viii -
deteriorated badly with an average loss ratio of 182% (99% after operation of the government
claims subsidies) and with a worst loss year in 2010 with 261% loss ratio.

24.      Scheme performance varies widely across different regions and the very poor
underwriting results in Aktobe and WKO are making the scheme financially unviable. The
pattern of claims varies widely by geographic region. The best performing Oblast is NKO which
over the past 6 years has contributed 22% of total scheme liability, but only 3% of claims and has
a long-term loss ratio of only 24%. At the other extreme, Aktobe and WKO in western
Kazakhstan which have collectively accounted for only 4.8% of total scheme liability over the
past 6 years have incurred 41% of all claims and respectively have 6-year long-term loss ratios of
381% and 507%. These two Oblasts are severely prejudicing the financial viability of the whole
of the national crop insurance program and measures of controlling the claims costs in these two
Oblasts must be introduced.

25.      The private insurance companies and mutuals do not have any access to reinsurance
on their 50% retained claims and they are extremely exposed to catastrophe drought losses.
This is a major issue which will need to be addressed under any future reforms and strengthening
of the Kazakhstan crop insurance scheme.

Evaluation of Crop Insurance Effectiveness for Key Stakeholders

26.      The Kazakhstan compulsory crop insurance scheme was launched with very well
intentioned social and economic objectives, but it appears that it is failing to meet the
requirements of its key stakeholders including farmers, crop insurers and government. The
program was originally conceived as a mechanism to ensure that all farm workers and small
peasant farmers would receive a minimum indemnity in the event of crop failure due to drought
or other natural and climatic perils. The obligatory nature of the scheme was intended to be a
short-term measure which would enable the insurance sector to develop a sound and stable crop
insurance market based on a PPP between private and public sectors, while at the same time
providing time to educate farmers in the benefits of crop insurance so that they would continue to
purchase cover once the scheme was made voluntary. After 6 years the scheme has failed to
develop a strong crop insurance market and to educate farmers. The fact that the program is very
unpopular with many farmers also suggests it is failing to meet its social objectives. Finally
government faces major uncertainties over its financial exposure to claims (Figure 1).




                                              - ix -
Figure 1. Key Issues facing Main Stakeholders involved in the Compulsory Crop Insurance
Scheme




Source: Authors


Strategy and Options for Strengthening the Current Crop Insurance Scheme
27.       A phased approach is recommended for strengthening and improving the obligatory
crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan and for gradually converting this into a fully market-
based commercial crop insurance system involving 3 distinct Phases: (i) strengthening the
current obligatory scheme and achievement of financial stability (short-term, 1-3 years); (ii)
transition towards a market-based crop insurance system (short-term, 1-3 years); and (iii) the
transformation into a fully market-based Pool crop insurance system backed-up by international
reinsurance under a suitable PPP for Kazakhstan ( medium-term, 3-5 years).

Phase 1: Short-term Measures to Strengthen the Existing Compulsory Scheme

Legal & Regulatory

28.      In the short-term it is recommended that the Obligatory Crop Insurance Law should
be amended to permit insurance companies greater flexibility in determining the premium
rates and other terms and conditions of cover they provide under the LIC Policy . While it is
assumed that crop insurance will continue to be obligatory by law for farmers in the short term,
the law should be amended to permit insurers to set their own terms and conditions of cover and
especially premium rates (Section 4.6 to 4.11).

Technical Strengthening of the Design and Rating of the Loss of Investment Costs Policy

29.      A series of practical measures have been identified to strengthen the design of the LIC
Policy and which are listed in Box 1. Full details are provided in Sections 4.12 to 4.25, and key
recommendations for strengthening are highlighted below.




                                              -x-
30.       There is a need to consider increasing the sums insured. Currently the LIC policy
does not provide adequate levels of protection to the majority of farmers. If the sum insured
coverage levels were to be increased under this program, this would provide farmers with higher
levels of protection, but would have to be accompanied by actuarial increases in the premium
rates charged and the amount of premium farmers have to pay. With increased sums insured, the
Insurance Companies would face a much higher financial liability in the event of severe drought
losses and it would be essential for the insurers to have a comprehensive reinsurance protection
program in place. For government the higher coverage levels would mean a correspondingly
higher budgetary allocation would need to be made to cover the 50% claims reimbursements.
There is a need to set the sums insured in each Rayon according to: i) the actual production costs
of different types of farmer in each Rayon and ii) the risk exposure in each rayon.

31.      There is a need to revise the crop premium rating methodology in order to i) introduce
a system of Rayon-level premium rates and ii) to update the premium rates on an actuarial
basis. The 6-year long-term gross loss ratio at end 2010 was 140% (equal to a 70% loss ratio net
of the government 50% claims reimbursement), suggesting that on average the scheme has
operated on a break-even basis. The premium rates were last revised by government in 2008 and
since then, however, the scheme results have deteriorated very badly over the past three years
during which time the average loss ratio has been 182% (loss ratio of 91% net of the government
50% claims subsidy). In some Oblasts including NKO and Kostanay the scheme has performed
very well, but in others including Aktobe, WKO, and Zhambyl the claims performance has been
very poor. There are also major differences in the pattern of losses among rayons in individual
Oblasts and there is a need to revise the Oblast rating methodology by introducing a system of
Rayon-level actuarially determined premium rates for each crop. Finally it is recommended to
introduce a bonus-malus2 system into the crop rating methodology (See section 4.21)

Box 1. Measures to Strengthen the Design of the Loss of Investment Costs Policy
Item                              Detail
Criteria for Acceptance of        Even if government decide in the short-term to maintain Compulsory crop
Risk / Compulsion of Cover        insurance for all producers special consideration will need to be given to
                                  farmers located in Aktobe and WKO.
Insured Perils                    Maintain current coverage to include loss or damage to crop production due
                                  to: ―Adverse weather events‖, as defined.
Sales Cut-off date                Introduce a policy sales cut-off date 1st April
Cover Period                      From the time of crop emergence and full stand establishment (e.g. wheat 10
                                  cm stage in crop) through to completion of the crop harvest.
Insured Unit (IU)                 Strengthen the definition of the IU which is defined as the ―individual field‖.
                                  For farms of less than 250 hectares, consider re-defining the IU as ―the total
                                  area of all fields of the same crop grown in the same location or farm
Sum Insured                       Government should amend the Obligatory Law to permit Insurance
                                  Companies to have the option to establish an agreed sum insured with each
                                  farmer according to their own circumstances and insurance requirements.
Premium Rates                             Government should amend the Obligatory Law to permit insurance
                                           companies to set their own premium rates for each crop and zone.
                                          Actuarial rating should be introduced to reflect differences in risk
                                           exposures between Rayons in each Oblast and possibly differences
                                           in technology levels and risk exposures between farmers.

2
 Under a bonus malus system, a farmer who does not submit a claim is rewarded at the renewal date of his
policy by receiving a reduction in his premium rate (termed the ―bonus‖), while a farmer who submits high
claims will have his rate accordingly increased at the renewal (termed the ―malus‖).


                                                  - xi -
Bonus Malus System               It is recommended that underwriters introduce a Bonus-Malus system on the
                                 compulsory crop insurance scheme. The objectives of the bonus-malus are:
                                        to introduce individual farmer experience rating
                                        to reduce the submission of speculative claims notices by farmers.
Basis of Indemnity and           The Crop Sale Price which is used to value actual production in the event of
Claims Settlement                a Partial Loss should be pre-agreed based on an average historical farm-gate
                                 sales price for each crop in each Rayon and stated in the Policy Wording.
Source: Authors


Measures to Improve Scheme Profitability

32.       The financial viability of the crop insurance scheme is being adversely impacted by
the inclusion of Aktobe and WKO Oblasts. Over the past 6 years Aktobe and WKO have
collectively accounted for only 4.8% of total scheme liability, but have contributed 41% of total
claims and respectively have actual loss ratios of 381% and 507%. Over this period, if Aktobe
and WKO had not been included in the scheme, this would have led to a reduction in total
premium earnings of 13% only, but would have led to a huge saving in claims costs for insurers
of 40% of actual claims (or a reduction in claims of KZT 3.3 billion – US$ 22.0 million) and a
reduction in the 6-year long-term gross loss ratio from 140% to 96%. Following application of
the government 50% reimbursement of claims the ―As If‖ loss ratio for the scheme would have
been reduced to about 48%. (Table 1). These two Oblasts (in common with much of the northern
and central regions of Kazakhstan) were traditionally livestock grazing regions which were
converted to cereal (mainly spring wheat) production, during Soviet times. The underlying
problem, however, in most of Aktobe and WKO Oblasts is that soils are mostly poor, average
annual rainfall is very low and in a normal year is barely adequate for growing spring wheat in
most of the rayons located in these two Oblasts. As such these are very marginal Oblasts for
spring wheat crop production and no matter how a crop insurance policy is structured in these two
Oblasts, it will always be very heavily exposed to loss and the technical and commercial premium
rates that would have to be charged would be so high (an average commercial rate prior to
application of government claims subsidies of between 37% Aktobe and 66% WKO) as to make
the scheme commercially unviable in these two Oblasts. There are, however, a few areas in these
Oblasts where spring wheat production is more stable and where crop insurance might possibly
be considered in future, albeit at very high rates, including Taskalisky and Kaztalisky Rayons
located in the south west of WKO and Karagaly and Martuk Rayons in northern Aktobe Oblast.

Table 1. Comparison of Crop Insurance Actual Results with and without Aktobe and WKO
 Item                           Actual Portfolio               Modified Portfolio           Percent
                              (With Aktobe/WKO)              (Without Aktobe/WKO)          Reduction
 No. of Policies                    140,961                         134,193                   -5%
 Total Insured Area (Ha)           73,770,915                     69,453,803                  -6%
 Sum Insured ('000 TH)            242,631,438                     231,048,598                 -5%
 Premiums ('000 TH)                5,861,958                       5,102,670                 -13%
 Average Premium Rate %               2%                              2%                      -9%
 Claim payments ('000 TH)          8,222,776                       4,910,314                 -40%
 Loss Ratio %                        140%                            96%                     -31%
 Loss cost %                         3.39%                           2.13%                   -37%
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA crop insurance data 2005-2010




                                                   - xii -
Options for WKO and Aktobe

33.      The first option which is being examined by the insurance companies is to continue
operating the LIC scheme in Aktobe and WKO on the understanding that government will
agree to reimburse these insurers for a higher percentage of claims in these two Oblasts.
Currently government reimburses insurers for 50% of the value of all paid claims. Under this
option, GRK would agree to indemnify a higher percentage of claims incurred in Aktobe and
WKO only: according to the insurance industry they have already requested government to
consider raising its share to 70% or 75% of total claims in these 2 Oblasts in 2012. Over the past
6 years, government‘s 50% contribution to claims costs have amounted to about KZT 4.1 billion
or an annual average of KZT 0.685 billion per year. If Government agreed to increase its share of
claims in Aktobe and WKO, the ―As If‖ annual total cost to government would increase to: i)
Option A 75% claims share in Aktobe and WKO: KZT 0.823 billion per year or an increase of
20% and ii) Option B 100% claims share in Aktobe and WKO: KZT 0.961 billion per year or an
increase of 40% (this latter 100% claims subsidy option shows the maximum expected costs to
government if it wishes to continue including Aktobe and WKO in the LIC scheme and assuming
the insurance companies act purely as administrators in these 2 Oblasts, but do not accept any
claims liability: the ―As if‖ 100% claims cost to government in these 2 Oblasts would be an
average of about KZT 550 million or US$ 3.7 million per year). While this option may provide
government a short-term solution to retaining the support and underwriting capacity of the
insurance industry and in increasing the profitability of the program after the government‘s
increased claims reimbursements, in the medium to long-term this does not tackle the
fundamental issue that commercial spring wheat crop insurance is not financially viable in most
of the Rayons located in Aktobe and WKO Oblasts.

34.       The second option for government to consider would be to take Aktobe and WKO out
of the crop insurance scheme altogether and to establish a separate and formal disaster relief
scheme for producers of annual crops in these 2 Oblasts. The argument for taking Aktobe and
WKO altogether out of the scheme centre on: i) these are very marginal rainfall areas for growing
annual grain crops and ii) from a crop insurance viewpoint these Oblasts (with the possible
exception of a few Rayons listed above) are effectively uninsurable with 6 year long-term loss
costs of 22% and 40% respectively and catastrophe losses every other year, with loss ratios
(claims to premium ratios) as high as 1000% in major drought years. It is therefore necessary for
government to consider whether to continue to promote annual crops in these Oblasts, but to use a
separate disaster relief fund to compensate farmers in severe drought years. The cost of this
disaster relief compensation program for farmers in Aktobe and WKO, assuming the same 100%
original claims costs and compensation levels as under the current LIC insurance scheme, would
be exactly the same as the 100% claims compensation option outlined previously with an average
cost to government for these 2 Oblasts of about KZT 550 million (US$ 3.7 million) per year and
with a peak of about KZT 1.6 billion (US$ 10.7 million) in a very severe drought year such as
2010. Options for some form of macro-level catastrophe drought Weather Index Insurance cover
are also examined in this report.

Strengthening the Scheme Operating Systems and Procedures

35.      In conjunction with the design changes identified to strengthen the LIC policy, there
are a series of potential measures scheme administration should consider in order to improve
underwriting and claims operating systems and procedures and to reduce the costs of these
operations. Box 2 summarizes some of the key identified operational areas which require
strengthening. In the specific case of loss assessment the current procedures whereby a
committee of up to 5 individuals from five different organizations are involved in the in-field loss
assessment must be rationalized and made more cost-effective and the insurance companies given


                                              - xiii -
a more central role in loss assessment, whilst at the same time ensuring that impartiality and
fairness are maintained for both the Insured and the Insurer. In the short-term Kazakhstan does
not have independent firms of certified and approved loss adjusters which specialize in crop loss
assessment, but in the medium terms options should be explored for creating such specialist
entities.

Box 2. Options for streamlining and reducing the costs of policy marketing, pre-inspections
and loss assessment systems and procedures
Requirement                     Detail
Pre-Inspections need to be              A system of sample pre-inspections should be considered for the
introduced                               large farms in northern Kazakhstan. Pre-inspections are needed in
                                         order to minimize moral hazard.
Loss Notification and Loss              The Law should be modified to simplify the loss notification
Assessment Procedures need               obligations of the insured
to be streamlined and made               The Law should be modified to enable loss assessment functions to
more cost-effective                      be managed by the insurance companies and procedures streamlined
                                         to reduce the costs of loss assessment.
                                        A Bonus-Malus system should be introduced to dissuade farmers
                                         from submitting claims save where a major loss has occurred and
                                         which is likely to lead to an indemnity.
Use of Remote Sensing to        The national space agency (NSA) is already involved in applications of
support in-field loss           remote sensing to estimate crop sown area and production and yield
assessment                      estimates for the MOA and to monitor crop status during the growing season.
                                It is recommended that the crop insurance scheme managers should review
                                potential supporting roles by the NSA for loss assessment.
Review Policy Marketing and     Currently most policy sales are made through local Agents located in each
Distribution Channels with a    Oblast and sub-region. The Agents are currently paid 10% brokerage by law.
view to reducing costs          Alternative crop insurance marketing and distribution channels should be
                                promoted in order to reduce costs including sales though cooperatives and
                                farmer associations, input dealers, rural banks, grain merchants, etc.
Farmer Awareness Programs       In conjunction with the proposed improvements in operating systems and
on Crop Insurance               procedures, greater emphasis needs to be paid on farmer awareness programs
                                about the basis of insurance and indemnity on the current LIC program
Source: Authors

Institutional Strengthening

36.       In the short term there is a major challenge to find ways of encouraging more private
commercial insurance companies to support the crop insurance scheme. Several measures
have been identified under this study which will hopefully be attractive to local insurers including
i) the introduction of actuarially determined premium rates , ii) the measures to reduce insurers‘
liability in Aktobe and WKO and iii) recommendations for strengthening loss assessment
procedures and for giving insurers more direct control over this important function. However, in
the medium term it is also probable that Insurers will insist of being given greater control over
risk selection and underwriting function if they are to join the scheme.

37.      There is also a need to create a level playing field for commercial insurers and the
farmer mutual insurance associations. Mutual insurance associations should in future be
regulated under the Agency for Financial Market and Financial Institutions Regulation and
Control and be required to follow the same guidelines in terms of the capital requirements and in
terms of constitution of insurance reserves as per the commercial insurance sector. Failing to


                                               - xiv -
doing so creates biased competition and the possibilities for the mutual associations to fail to
meet the financial obligations.

The Need to Cap Catastrophe Losses (Excess of Loss Protection)

38.      Both the Crop Insurance companies and the Farmer Mutual Crop Insurance
Associations in Kazakhstan are very exposed to Catastrophe losses which exceed their reserves
and options for enhanced reinsurance protection need to be considered. GRK currently
provides free of cost proportional reinsurance protection equal to 50% of the claims to the private
insurance companies and mutuals in Kazakhstan. Currently, however, neither the private insurers
nor the mutuals have any reinsurance protection on their 50% retentions and they are therefore
very exposed to major systemic drought losses. In the case of the private insurance companies
their ability to absorb catastrophe losses is much higher than the mutuals because of their much
larger size, their capital and claims reserves and their diversified non-life insurance portfolios
under which crop insurance only represents a fraction of their overall premium earnings and
overall liability. In 2010 there is evidence that some mutuals could not meet their claims
obligations in full because the claims exceeded their premium earnings: they therefore had to
prorate down claims. There is an urgent need to design catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance
protection for both the Private Insurance Companies and the Mutuals companies on their 50%
retentions through some form of non-proportional or Stop Loss Reinsurance protection.

In the short-term it is unlikely that the Kazakhstan obligatory crop insurance scheme will be
able to meet the standards required by international reinsurers to attract their capacity and
therefore any non-proportional reinsurance solutions will probably have to be provided by
GRK. Some indicative rating analyses have been carried out for a GRK aggregate (i.e. over the
whole crop insurance scheme) Stop Loss Reinsurance3 protection for the spring wheat crop and
under the assumptions of the existing LIC scheme sum insured and actuarially determined rates,
for priority levels of 70% of gross net premium income (GNPI) and 100% GNPI. This analysis
has been conducted separately assuming Aktobe and WKO continue to be included in the LIC
compulsory crop insurance scheme and then without Aktobe and WKO. While caution must be
exercised as this is a preliminary rating analysis, it is considered robust and suggests that the
indicative costs of providing full value (i.e. up to 100% of TSI) aggregate stop loss protection
excess of 100% and 70% priorities would be in the order of KZT 0.27 billion (US$ 1.8 million) to
KZT 0.31 billion (US$ 2.1) per year. (Section 4.2). Premium Subsidy Considerations

39.      If government were to switch its support from a share of 50% the claims to some form
of non proportional excess of loss protection, the insurers would need to increase their
premium rates and in this case GRK may also need to consider whether farmers can afford
these rate increases or if it will be necessary to introduce premium subsidies . Over the past 6
years, government‘s 50% of claims liability has been an average of KZT 685 million per year
(US$ 4.6 million), but in severe drought years such as 2010, government‘s 50% claims share was
much higher at KZT 1.4 billion (US$ 9.3 million) and the total cost has been KZT 4.1 billion
(US$ 27.3 million) in claims compensation. If instead, over the past 6 years, government had
provided 50% premium subsidies, the total cost would have been somewhat higher at KZT 5.86
billion (US$ 39.1 million) total or an average of KZT 0.98 billion (US$ 6.5 million) per year.

3
  Stop Loss Reinsurance is a type of non-proportional reinsurance protection which is designed to cap an
Insurers claims liability at a pre-agreed amount (value) which is referred to as the priority. Any claims
above the priority are then transferred (ceded) to the reinsurer to settle, up to the limit of the reinsurer‘s
liability which is defined in the reinsurance agreement. The priority is often expressed as a percentage of
the premium income that is underwritten by the insurance scheme, net of any policy cancellations and or
returns of premium, hence the term Gross Net Premium Income (GNPI)


                                                     - xv -
40.      GRK should study very carefully the issues surrounding premium subsidies before
deciding whether to switch from the current system of claims subsidies to premium subsidies .
The current system whereby government compensates 50% of the claims costs and then caps
premium rates at approximately 50% of the technically required rates: in some regions of the
country current premium rates are above the actuarially required rates and in other parts of the
country actual rates are far too low. On the one hand this results in distorted crop insurance price
signals in the market and on the other hand the 50% claims compensation does not provide the
local insurers with the catastrophe protection on their retained claims that they require. Finally
international reinsurers are not willing to support an under-priced scheme. While the authors are
very cautious about recommending premium subsidies, it would be preferable in Kazakhstan to
have an actuarially rated and commercially priced program and for government to then decide
whether to provide financial support in the form of premium subsidies and also in the short term
in the form of non-proportional stop-loss reinsurance protection and then in the medium term to
promote the participation by international reinsurers.




Phase 2: Transition towards a Market Based Crop Insurance System

41.     The proposed transition over the next few years to a market-based crop insurance
system in Kazakhstan is centered on 1) the introduction of individual grower multiple-peril
crop insurance MPCI either as a complement to, or as a substitute for the current Loss of
Investment Cost Policy and 2) the introduction of formal excess of loss reinsurance protection
for the crop insurance industry. Under this transition it is assumed that crop insurance would
probably continue to be obligatory for farmers during this interim phase and that Aktobe and
WKO would no longer be included in the crop insurance scheme because this crop cannot be
commercially insured in these two. It is intended that farmers in these two Oblasts are protected
by a separate disaster-relief mechanism.

Individual Grower MPCI Cover for Spring Wheat

42.     The transition from the existing LIC cover to a more standardized individual grower
Multiple-Peril Crop insurance (MPCI) Policy would be relatively simple. The crop insurers of
the LIC policy have gained considerable experience in underwriting loss of yield-based multiple
crop insurance and in conducting in-field loss assessment to establish actual yields and the
amount of loss. This experience would enable them relatively easily to design, rate and
implement individual grower MPCI.

43.      MPCI and LIC insurance products are slightly different. The main differences of an
individual grower MPCI product to the LIC Policy include: i) the establishment of a pre-agreed
Insured Yield at the time of policy subscription (the Insured Yield is usually calculated as a
percentage of the individual farmer‘s historical average or normal crop yield or t he local area
average yield), ii) a pre-agreed unit Valuation Price which is applied to the Insured Yield to
calculate the sum insured and iii) loss assessment involves the measurement of the actual yield
which is compared to the Insured Yield and the amount of shortfall is indemnified accordingly at
the pre-agreed valuation price. This basis of insurance and indemnity which is based on loss of
yield is potentially much more transparent and understandable for farmers than under the existing
LIC policy and loss assessment is also much more objective as yield loss is measured rather than




                                              - xvi -
expected shortfall in production costs compared to the estimated value of the remaining crop
(salvage revenue).

44.     The international experience of MPCI is that the product is very popular with farmers,
but on account of the high premiums associated with this product, most schemes are dependent
on government support in the form of premium subsidies. The international literature on MPCI
often highlights the drawbacks encountered under voluntary schemes of anti-selection and moral
hazard, or the difficulties of establishing average farmer yields and corresponding premium rates,
through to high premium costs requiring government support in the form of premium subsidies
and the often very high costs of individual grower in-field loss inspection and loss assessment.
While these arguments are indeed very valid, they apply as equally to the existing Loss of
Investment Cost policy in Kazakhstan. Currently issues of anti-selection are less of a problem
because the scheme is obligatory for all farmers, but because it is a loss of yield multiple peril
scheme it shares the drawbacks of other MPCI schemes.

45.      In Kazakhstan the main challenge for introducing individual grower MPCI centres on
the procedures for establishing an individual grower “normal average yield” and then in
establishing Premium Rates for different MPCI coverage levels in each Rayon. On the basis of
international experience it is believed that the quality of the rayon-level crop production and yield
data in Kazakhstan is sufficiently good to use the 17-years of available spring wheat yield data to
design and rate an individual grower MPCI program. As the historical Rayon-level spring wheat
crop production and yield data is available for both Production Enterprises and Commercial
Farmers, separate coverage levels and premium rates can be offered to each type of farmer if
required.

46.      A detailed rating analysis has been conducted for MPCI cover for spring wheat grown
in the 6 main Oblasts (excluding WKO and Aktobe) located in northern Kazakhstan The
statistical rating methodology used in this study to establish individual grower MPCI rates
conforms to the MPCI rating procedures which are adopted by the insurance industry. The spring
wheat MPCI rates presented in this report are indicative commercial premium rates for a 60%
target loss ratio, but it is stressed that final decisions over rates will be taken by insurers and their
reinsurers. For Insured yield coverage levels of 20% to 30% of yield the MPCI rates would be
roughly comparable to the full (unsubsidized) LIC Premium rates, but for higher levels of
coverage rates would be correspondingly higher. (Section 4.62 to 4.65).

47.     It is likely that if individual grower MPCI is introduced into Kazakhstan that GRK will
need to consider supporting the higher premiums with premium subsidies. Some preliminary
estimates are made in Section 4 of this report of the costs of government under different uptake
scenarios.

Risk Financing and Reinsurance

48.     If individual grower MPCI is introduced for spring wheat and other crops, and higher
coverage levels and sums insured are offered to farmers, this will have important implications
for insurers and governments liability in the event of severe drought losses. For these reasons a
detailed analysis has been conducted in Section 4 of the probable maximum losses associated
with increased coverage levels for the spring wheat program. The analysis suggests that for a
maximum 50% coverage level the expected losses that might occur every 10 years could be in the
order of KZT 36.3 billion (US$ 242 million or 17.13% of the value of the TSI), and for the 1 in
100 year PML a loss of KZT 99.7 billion (US$ 665 million or 47% of TSI)




                                                - xvii -
49.     Given the catastrophe risk exposures of spring wheat production to drought in
Kazakhstan, it is extremely unlikely that the insurance sector would be willing to assume the
increased liabilities implied under the proposed MPCI program unless government is willing to
provide reinsurance support for this initiative. Currently government is providing 50:50 quota
share reinsurance protection to the private commercial crop insurers and mutual crop insurers but
as previously noted this protection does not cap their exposure to catastrophe losses. Therefore
for the purposes of this study some preliminary analyses have been conducted for non-
proportional stop loss reinsurance protection for the spring wheat MPCI program.

50.      Some preliminary modeling has been conducted to establish the indicative reinsurance
pricing for an Aggregate Stop Loss Reinsurance Protection for the spring wheat MPCI
program. The modeling has been conducted assuming full value protection and priority levels of
70%, 100% and 150% of GNPI for the four MPCI insured yield coverage levels. The analysis
shows that for a full value Aggregate stop loss reinsurance protection for losses excess of 100%
GNPI, the stop loss reinsurance pricing would be in the order of KZT 991 million (US$ 6.6
million) for 20% coverage level, rising to KZT 5.8 billion (US$ 38.7 million) for 50% coverage.
If the lower 70% of GNPI priority was to be adopted the Aggregate Stop loss pricing would be
correspondingly higher.

51.     In Phase 2 it is possible that some of the larger private commercial crop insurers may
be able to arrange their own reinsurance programs with international reinsurers. If these
insurance companies can demonstrate that even under an obligatory crop insurance scheme that
they are underwriting a balances portfolio by risk region and that they are adopting technically
based MPCI rating and that they have strengthened their MPCI loss assessment systems and
procedures, then they should be able to arrange both proportional and non-proportional
reinsurance through leading international reinsurers of this class of business.



Phase 3 Transformation into a Commercial Pool Crop Insurance Scheme supported
by International Reinsurance

52.     In the final phase it is assumed the scheme would be transformed into a fully market-
based public-private partnership agricultural insurance scheme for Kazakhstan, central
features of which would include i) voluntary crop insurance, ii) formation of an Agricultural Pool
coinsurance system to crowd in private commercial insurers (and possibly the mutual crop
insurers if they can conform to insurance market regulations), iii) introduction of a formal
program of international reinsurance protection for the pool and iv) backed up by suitable support
from government and which might include financial support for premium subsidies and or
catastrophe risk financing.

Transition from Obligatory to Voluntary Crop Insurance

53.      As part of the transition to a market based crop insurance system, policy makers in
Kazakhstan will need to consider making crop insurance voluntary. Kazakhstan is one of a
small minority of countries to adopt obligatory crop insurance and almost unique in trying to
implement obligatory crop insurance through the private commercial insurance sector.
International experience tends to suggest that agricultural insurance should be a voluntary class of
insurance. In many countries (including India, Philippines, Mexico), there are very close linkages
between public sector crop-credit provision and crop insurance and banks make their lending
conditional on the farmer having crop insurance in place at the time of receiving his loan. In



                                             - xviii -
other words, the banks make their lending conditional on the loanee taking out parallel crop
insurance (mandatory basis) while crop insurance is voluntary for non-loanees.

54.     If crop insurance is made voluntary in Kazakhstan it is likely that there will be a major
reduction in the demand for crop insurance in the short-term while the farming sectors adjust
to the realities of a demand-driven voluntary crop insurance system. At this stage it is not
possible to predict how great the contraction in demand by farmers for voluntary crop insurance
may be, but this is likely to be significant. Under a voluntary system, crop insurers would be free
to select which types of farmer, which crops and which regions they are willing to underwrite
under the crop insurance program.

Rationale and Features of an Agricultural Insurance Pool in Kazakhstan

55.       Coinsurance Pools for agricultural insurance have proved to be very popular with
private and mutual insurers in many countries including most notably, the Agroseguro4 Pool in
Spain, the Tarsim Pool in Turkey, the Philippines livestock insurance pool, the Austrian Hail
Insurance pool and various other pool arrangements in China, Argentina, Malawi, Mongolia and
Ukraine.

56.      The rationale for recommending the formation of a coinsurance pool in Kazakhstan
centres on a number of key factors which include:

       i)       The very small number of private commercial companies which are currently
                supporting this scheme and the need to crowd in commercial insurers if crop
                insurance is to remain a viable proposition in Kazakhstan. LIC/MPCI crop
                insurance is a catastrophe class of business and many insurance companies are
                reluctant to risk their capital on it; however, under a Pool agreement individual
                companies can participate with very small shares of the overall risk if they wish.

       ii)      The prohibitively high start-up investment costs for individual insurance
                companies in creating their own internal crop underwriting and claims
                departments and then in developing regional networks of marketing and sales
                agents and trained crop inspectors and loss assessors to administer the scheme
                implementation. Pools offer the opportunity to create a single centralised
                insurance underwriting and claims management and loss assessment capability
                (often termed a Managing Underwriter, MU) and for individual Pool members to
                contribute towards the running costs of the MU whilst benefiting from the
                advantages of economies of scale..

       iii)     The lack of common standards at regional level in the underwriting of crop
                risks and especially in the in-field loss assessment capabilities of individual
                insurance companies and the farmer mutual insurance associations. Under a Pool
                Agreement the MU would be responsible for coordinating all underwriting and
                loss adjustment activities and in ensuring that common standards are adopted
                throughout the country.

       iv)      A lack of consistency in crop rating and competition which is driving down the
                crop insurance premium rates to unsustainable levels. Under a Pool Agreement


4
 AGROSEGURO stands for the Agrupación Española de Entidades Aseguradoras de los Seguros Agrarios
Combinados (Spanish Group of Insurance Entities of the Combined Agrarian Insurance)


                                              - xix -
                all insurers would issue standard crop insurance policies and they would all adopt
                the same premium rates for each crop in each zone and region;

       v)       The difficulties of arranging commercial international reinsurance protection
                for individual Kazakhstani insurance companies with very different
                underwriting standards and portfolios. Under a Pool agreement, a single
                reinsurance program would be purchased by the MU and it would be much
                cheaper to transact a single reinsurance contract for the Poolc

57.     It must also be recognized that there are potential drawbacks of introducing Pools to
underwrite agricultural insurance. Classical economic theory would argue that by forming a
pool (with monopolistic or oligopolistic tendencies) this will reduce competition particularly over
pricing of insurance products. These arguments do not apply directly to Kazakhstan where there
is currently no competitive market for agricultural insurance, where the single product available
and the premium rates are fixed by law. While it is fully accepted that the introduction of a pool
would lead to standard crop insurance policies and uniform technical premium rates being offered
by each pool member, the aim will be over a number of years is to expand the range of crop
insurance products available in the Kazakhstan market, to achieve economies of scale in key
areas such as loss assessment and which will hopefully translate into lower overall commercial
premium rates and to improve the insurance services provided to farmers.

58.     The proposed Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool would involve the active
participation of the public and private sectors. The central feature of the new system would be
the creation of an Agricultural Coinsurance Pool which would be designed to underwrite all
classes of agricultural insurance business. It is recommended that the Pool coinsurers also create
a separate Managing Underwriting Company (MUC) which would be responsible for
underwriting the scheme on behalf of the coinsurers and which would handle premiums and loss
assessment and claims settlement on behalf of the pool coinsurers and which would also negotiate
reinsurance on behalf of the Pool Coinsurers. The main function of the Pool coinsurers would be
to market crop insurance through their sales distribution networks. The Public-Sector including
the Insurance Regulator, MOA and FFSA would play very important roles under the proposed
Pool system. The Fund for Financial Support to Agricultural Insurance, FFSA would continue to
act as the main public sector implementing agency on this pool agricultural insurance scheme.
Under the proposed Pool system, the FFSA‘s roles would be amended to no longer include
participation in field-level loss assessment and would be expanded to include: i) Coordination
with the Crop Insurance Pool‘s Managing Underwriting Company (MUC) in the development of
the technical studies required for the design of new crop, livestock, forestry and aquaculture
insurance policies and programs into the system ii) management of the government‘s financial
fund for the support of agricultural insurance and disbursement of funds (including as
appropriate, premium subsidies and catastrophe reinsured claims payments) to the MUC on
behalf of the Pool Coinsurers, iii) maintenance of crop insurance underwriting and claims data-
bases and iv) provision of information and advice to farmers. An outline institutional framework
for the Agricultural Insurance Pool is shown in Figure 2 which draws on the experiences of the
organizational structures of the Spanish and Turkish agricultural insurance pools.




                                              - xx -
Figure 2. Organizational Framework for Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool Scheme

                  Fund for Financial                                       Agency for Financial Market and
                                                  Ministry of
                Support to Agriculture                                     Financial Institutions Regulation
                                                  Agriculture                         and Control
                       (FFSA)
                     Financial support:           Policy, planning,
                    premium subsidies,             research and                   Insurance legal &
                        catastrophe                development                        regulatory
                        reinsurance

                                             Pool Management Board
                                                                               Kazakhstan Non-Life
                   International               AGRICULTURAL                   Insurance Companies
                    Reinsurers                INSURANCE POOL
                                                                                  Farmer Mutual Crop
                                                                                 Insurance Associations

                                            Managing Underwriting
                                                 Company


                 Farmer Associations, Cooperatives,                   Large Farmer Production
                 Rural Banks and other Aggregators                           Enterprises

                    Small and Medium Farmers




                                                Source: Authors
59.      Details of the proposed operating systems and procedures for the Kazakhstan
Agricultural Insurance Pool are set out in Section 4. The MUC would be responsible for the
functions of product design and rating, underwriting and risk acceptance, claims administration
and loss assessment and for negotiating common account reinsurance protection on behalf of and
reporting to the pool coinsurers. The potential for the MUC to organise and train an independent
crop loss assessment capability in standardized and timely and accurate field-based loss
assessment procedures is highlighted as one of the major potential advantages of a pool system.
The MUC, as a single entity acting on behalf of all pool coinsurers should be able to achieve
major economies of scale and A&O cost savings.

Government Support to the Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool

60.     As part of the transition to a market-based Pool Agricultural Insurance System in
Kazakhstan, the role of Public-sector support to this scheme should be reviewed. To date
GRK‘s main support to the obligatory crop insurance scheme has been in the form of free Quota
Share reinsurance of 50% of the incurred claims, but this is likely to change under the transition
to a market-based agricultural insurance scheme.

61.      The GRK has several potential roles to play in supporting the Pool, including: i) to
provide legal and regulatory support including a review and reform of the Obligatory Crop
Insurance Law No 553-II of 2004, ii) enhancing crop insurance data and information systems and
infrastructure support, for example investment in weather stations to support crop insurance, iii)
to support the insurance companies through implementation of crop insurance awareness
programs for farmers, iv) catastrophe risk financing and v) premium subsidy support. (Full
details are reviewed in Sections 4.102 to 4.109).

Voluntary Crop Insurance Portfolio Financial Estimates

62.     Some provisional financial estimates of Total Sum Insured, premium and costs of
premium subsidies to government have been calculated for the spring wheat MPCI program
over the next 5 years. The estimates are based on a spring wheat MPCI scheme with an average


                                                      - xxi -
40% coverage level and demand projection uptake rates over the next 5 years under a voluntary
program starting in year 1 with 10% uptake and rising to 50% uptake after 5 years. On this basis,
total scheme liability in year 1 might be in the order of KZT 17 billion (US$ 113 million) rising
by year 5 to KZT 85 billion (US$ 567 million) with corresponding year 1 commercial premium of
nearly KZT 2.1 billion (US$ 14.0 million) rising to KZT 10.7 billion (US$ 71.3 million) by year
5. The provisional estimates of the costs to government of premium subsidies assuming 50%
premium subsidy level would be nearly KZT 1.07 billion (US$ 7.1 million) in year 1 rising to
KZT 5.35 billion (US$ 35.7 million) by year 5. Estimates are also provided for premium subsidy
levels of 25% and 65% of premium (Table 3).
Table 3. 5-Year Uptake Estimates for Voluntary Spring Wheat MPCI Total Sum Insured
and Premium Income and Costs of Premium Subsidies (40% Converge level)
                                   MPCI 40%       MPCI Crop Insurance Uptake Scenarios next 5-years (KZT Million)
              Item                 Coverage
                                                 Year 1        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
                                   100% Basis    10%            20%            30%            40%            50%
 Total Sum Insured                     169,697     16,970        33,939         50,909         67,879         84,849
 Total Commercial Premium               21,410      2,141         4,282          6,423          8,564         10,705
 Cost of GRK Premium Subsidies:
                 25% of premium          5,353       535          1,071          1,606          2,141          2,676
                 50% of premium         10,705      1,071         2,141          3,212          4,282          5,353
                 65% of premium         13,917      1,392         2,783          4,175          5,567          6,958
 Probable Maximum Loss:
              PML 1 in 100 years        66,470      6,647        13,294         19,941         26,588         33,235
              PML 1 in 250 years        79,688      7,969        15,938         23,906         31,875         39,844
Source: Authors

Risk Financing and Reinsurance

63.      It is recommended that in future the Agricultural Insurance Pool would purchase
common account reinsurance protection from international reinsurers in order to protect the
program against catastrophe losses. The support from international reinsurers may include both
proportional and non-proportional reinsurance. It is likely in the initial stages that for any stop
loss cover, international reinsurers will only be willing to provide layered stop loss reinsurance
protection in order to limit their liability to catastrophe claims and that the Government of
Kazakhstan may therefore need to also participate in the structured risk financing program by
providing catastrophe reinsurance for low frequency but high severity losses. An example of
layered insurance and reinsurance is presented in Figure 3 below. For the proposed spring wheat
MPCI program some illustrative commercial insurance and stop loss reinsurance layering and
pricing involving both international reinsurers and government of Kazakhstan and full results of
this analysis are presented in Section 4.

64.      The access to the international agricultural reinsurance markets will benefit the local
industry by having access to the expertise and services of specialized reinsurers . The service
and expertise that the international agricultural reinsurers can provide is critical for the
development of agricultural insurance schemes, particularly during the first years of operations.
International agricultural reinsurers can provide their expertise and services to the local industry
in the fields of agricultural insurance product research and development, pricing and underwriting
and claims management




                                                 - xxii -
Figure 3. Example of Agricultural Risk Layering
            50
  Size of
 the Loss                                                           Government

            40
                                                                                     Risk
                                                                     Reinsurers      Transfer
            30
                                                                     Insurance
                                                                    Companies
            20
                                                                    Cooperatives     Risk
                                                                     & Mutuals       Pooling
            10
                                                                    Agricultural     Risk
                                                                     Producers       Retention
             0
                  Minor   Small   Medium     Large   Catastrophic
 Type of Event:

Mahul & Stutley 2010

Opportunities for New Crop Insurance Products
65.     As part of this World Bank study an assessment has been conducted of the potential to
design and implement new crop insurance products including named peril frost and hail cover,
area-yield index insurance (AYII) and crop weather index insurance (CWII) for specific types
of Kazakh farmer and for different regions according to the key risk exposures. Section 5 of the
report presents the findings of this assessment.

Named-Peril Crop Hail for Spring Wheat Farmers

66.      Crop hail has been the second most important cause of insured claims on the
Obligatory crop insurance scheme over the past 6 years and the preliminary findings of this
study are that farmers in specific regions of Kazakhstan may be interested in a hail only crop
insurance policy. Hail is a moderate to severe problem in many parts of Kazakhstan with peak
months of hail exposure occurring between May and July (Section 2). Over the past 6 years of
operation of the Obligatory LIC scheme, hail has been the second most important cause of loss
after drought, accounting for about 2.5% of the total area lost due to insured perils. On the basis
of the field visits it appears that there may be demand under a voluntary scheme by farmers in
some regions for a hail-only insurance policy in spring wheat, including pockets of medium to
high hail risk in parts of NKO, Akmola, Kostanay (e.g. in Altynsarin and Kostanay Rayons) and
Pavlodar oblasts. .

67.     Crop Hail insurance is a simple and well understood class of crop insurance and it is
widely applied throughout the world to the insurance of wheat and a wide range of cereals,
horticultural and tree fruit crops. Single peril hail insurance is the simplest and best known type
of indemnity-based crop insurance which has operated for more than 100 years in Europe, North
America, Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. Today there is a large body of accumulated
experience with crop-hail damage-based insurance & indemnity products and wordings are
readily accessible through international associations of hail insurers, premium rates can initially
be set based on transferred international experience and so long as suitably high each and every
loss deductibles (or franchises) are maintained, the rates are generally not high, and finally


                                             - xxiii -
standardised damage-based loss assessment procedures can be accessed from the international
hail associations and training provided to local staff. This experience could therefore be
transferred very easily to Kazakhstan and then tailored by the crop insurers to meet local
requirements. Outline policy design features for a spring wheat hail insurance policy for
Kazakhstan are outlined in Sections 5.9 to 5.17.

68.      It is concluded that crop hail insurance should be relatively easy to design and
implement in Kazakhstan as a commercial crop insurance product. A preliminary hail rating
exercise has been conducted for spring wheat in selected rayons in Kazakhstan which suggests
that it should be possible to design hail cover at affordable rates to producer: in low hail prone
regions for a standard 6% damage excess (franchise) average hail rates of between 2.5% to 3.5%
should be feasible, rising to 5% to 6% in medium hail risk regions. Since this is a non-
catastrophe crop insurance product, it should be relatively easier for the crop insurance companies
and possibly the Farmer‘s Mutual Insurance Associations to underwrite this product with limited
access to reinsurance protection. It is likely that the demand for single-peril crop hail insurance
for spring wheat will be quite low in the initial stages of implementation of this product as hail
exposure is not as widespread as the drought risk exposure. There would be an important start-up
cost namely to design the suitable crop hail loss assessment procedures for Kazakhstan and to
then identify a core of loss assessors who would receive specialist training in hail loss assessment
procedures in wheat. Finally, it is likely that there will be demand for crop hail in other crops, for
example cotton and horticultural crops grown in southern Kazakhstan and over time there should
be potential to develop and expand a crop hail portfolio in Kazakhstan.

Area-Yield Index Insurance (AYII) for Spring Wheat

69.      On the basis of this feasibility study it appears that there may be considerable potential
in Kazakhstan to design and implement Crop Area-Yield Index Insurance (AYII) as an
alternative to or as a complement to the existing individual grower LIC and new proposed
individual grower MPCI crop insurance programs. Outline proposals are presented in Section 5
of this study for a prototype Area-Yield Index product and program for spring wheat grown in
Kazakhstan. The AYII proposals relate only to the 6 main wheat growing Oblasts of Akmola,
EKO, Karaganda, Kostanay, NKO and Pavlodar: Aktobe and WKO Oblasts and their Rayons on
account of the commercially uninsurable risk exposures in these two Oblasts.

Features, Advantages and Disadvantages of AYII

70.       AYII represents an alternative approach to MPCI insurance which aims to overcome
many of the drawbacks of traditional individual grower MPCI insurance. The key feature of
this product is that it does not indemnify crop yield losses at the individual field or grower level;
rather, an Area-Yield-Index product makes indemnity payments to growers according to yield
loss or shortfall against an average area yield (the index) in a defined geographical area (e.g., the
total sown area of spring wheat grown in a single Rayon). In the context of Kazakhstan it is
proposed that the AYII product would operate at the Rayon level (termed the Insured Unit – IU).

71.       In the context of Kazakhstan a key potential advantage of AYII over individual
grower MPCI is the ability to offer higher levels of insured yield coverage at lower rates
because losses are adjusted against an area yield index and not at the individual farmer level .
Other advantages of the AYII approach are that moral hazard and anti-selection are minimized,
and as the costs of administering such a policy are much reduced, this offers the potential to
market this product at lower premium costs to farmers. There are also major cost savings in AYII
loss assessment as this is not conducted on an individual farmer and field by field basis, but rather
according to a pre-agreed random sampling of crop yields on plots within the IU. However, the


                                              - xxiv -
AYII has one main important drawback. The main drawback of an AYII policy is ―Basis Risk‖ or
the potential difference between the insured area-yield outcome and the actual yields achieved by
individual insured farmers within the insured area. Basis risk arises where an individual grower
may incur severe crop yield losses due to a localized peril e.g. hail, but because these localized
losses do not impact on the district or rayon average yield, the farmer who has incurred crop
damage does not receive an indemnity. In addition, basis risk may arise where individual farmer
crop production and yields in the same rayon are highly heterogeneous and some farmers whose
average yields are above the area-average may in fact receive indemnities even though they have
not incurred any significant yield reduction or loss on their own farms.

72.       AYII is potentially a flexible crop insurance product that can be implemented at the
micro-level for individual farmers, or alternatively as a meso-level product that is designed to
protect the credit portfolio of a regional financial institution. In Kazakhstan there may be scope
to design AYII both as a micro-level individual grower product for medium to large wheat (or
other cereal) producers and to then design it as a meso-level product to protect the cooperative or
MFI loan portfolios to large numbers of small rural households in individual Rayons in Southern
Kazakhstan (discussed further in Section 6).

73.        AYII has been adopted in several countries including India, the USA and more
recently into Brazil, the Ukraine and is now being tested in Peru, the Philippines and in
Vietnam. India has more than 30 years of experience with implementing AYII for food crops and
oilseeds under the National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) which is a public sector
program for small and marginal farmers which is linked on an automatic or compulsory basis to
crop credit provision and which is heavily subsidised by government in the form of capped
premium rates and government compensation of excess claims. As such there are many
similarities between the NAIS and current obligatory LIC scheme in Kazakhstan. The NAIS is
the world‘s largest crop insurance program which is currently insuring about 25 million farmers
each year. Since 2010 the NAIS has been undergoing major transformation both to strengthen the
AYII policy and to move the scheme towards a market-based system and many of the issues and
lessons from the NAIS are of potential interest to crop insurance planners in Kazakhstan. In the
USA AYII has been offered for a wide range of cereal and oilseed crops for more than a decade,
but is a relatively small program in contrast to the popular individual farmer MPCI covers that are
available. In the Ukraine, which has very similar spring wheat production systems to Kazakhstan
attempts have been made since 2002 to introduce both AYII for cereals and also weather index
insurance, but with limited success: in the case of AYII there were difficulties in accessing
quality Oblast and Rayon time series crop production and yield data because of the disruptions
surrounding independence and the product was not widely accepted by farmers who preferred
individual grower MPCI cover. The Ukraine experience can again provide useful lessons for any
future planning and design of AYII for Kazakhstan. (See Section 5 for further details of the
Indian and Ukraine AYII programs).

AYII Design Features, Coverage Levels, Sums Insured and Premium Rating

74.      In Kazakhstan the proposed AYII insurance policy for spring wheat would operate at
the Rayon level, which is the lowest level of disaggregated time series crop area, production and
yield data available through the National Agency of Statistics Republic of Kazakhstan (ARKS). A
preliminary premium rating exercise has been conducted for the spring wheat AYII program for
all eligible Rayons in the 6 Oblasts. The rating exercise was based on spring wheat 17-years of
historical time series spring wheat crop production and yield data. This exercise adopted
internationally recognised rating procedures and full details of the calculated technical and
indicative commercial premium rates are presented in Section 5.



                                             - xxv -
75.     Under a spring wheat AYII program for Kazakhstan the coverage level in each Rayon
should be set in accordance with i) the underlying risk exposure and frequency, and ii) the
commercial premium rate that can be afforded by the targeted farmers. In order for a crop
insurance scheme to be both affordable to farmers the Insured Yield Coverage levels in each
Rayon should be set at levels to enable commercial premiums of no more than about 10% to be
charged and on this basis coverage levels of up to 50% could be offered in most Oblasts / Rayons
and as high as 70% coverage in NKO (Section 5).

Operational Considerations

76.      The procedures followed by the National Statistical Agency of Kazakhstan for
estimating actual average yield in each Rayon are technically sound for the implementation of
AYII. However, it is recommended that, in case AYII is implemented, that the insurance
companies enter into a formal agreement with the National Statistical Agency of Kazakhstan to
provide the results of their crop-cutting yield estimates for each Rayon. Under an AYII scheme it
is also likely that insurers and their reinsurers will wish to implement some form of independent
monitoring of the area-yield estimation procedures at Rayon level to verify that standards of
accuracy in the measurement of yields are maintained. Insurance companies may also wish to
establish formal agreements with the NSA in order to access its remote sensing services to
estimate crop sown area, crop production and yields and to monitor crop status during the
growing season.

Portfolio Estimates Financial and Reinsurance

77.      Some provisional portfolio financial estimates have been calculated for AYII cover for
spring wheat assuming a voluntary program and 5% incremental uptake rates per year over
the next 5 years. Under the assumptions of a 50% Insured Yield coverage level and 5% uptake
rate of AYII insurance per year over the next 5 years, the total sum insured might rise from KZT
10.6 billion in year 1 with corresponding premium income of KZT 692 million rising after 5
years to KZT 53 billion with premium income of KZT 3.5 billion. The costs to government of
different levels of premium subsidy levels are also estimated. It is recognized that these uptake
estimates are extremely ambitious for a voluntary insurance scheme and would need refinement
following a more detailed AYII demand study.

Conclusions on Area Yield Index Insurance

78.      AYII for spring wheat is technically and operationally feasible in Kazakhstan, but until
further research has been conducted into the potential demand for this cover it is very difficult to
predict likely uptake rates under a voluntary crop insurance program.

79.     Farmers’ demand for and willingness to pay for AYII crop insurance will also ha ve to
be studied further before any decisions are made to proceed with the design of an AYII program.
This feasibility study has identified a very low level of interest in the obligatory LIC crop
insurance scheme by farmers and it is probable that this would apply equally to voluntary crop
insurance in future. Similarly the experience from Ukraine has been of low voluntary demand for
this product. It is therefore recommended that a formal AYII crop-insurance demand assessment
study should be implemented by the key stakeholders in Kazakhstan.

80.     AYII for spring what could possibly also be underwritten either as a Meso level product
designed to protect the season loan portfolio of agencies which are lending to cereal producers
(banks, input suppliers or MFIs) or as a Macro-level AYII cover for government to operate for
small family farms in southern Kazakhstan.


                                             - xxvi -
Weather Index Insurance (WWI) Opportunities for Kazakhstan

81.     The analysis carried out in this feasibility study shows that developing Weather Index
Insurance (WII) contracts for hedging the drought exposure of spring wheat in the North of
Kazakhstan is technically feasible. However, challenges in the possible scale of
implementation, in the commercial viability and in farmers’ interest for WII may limit the
scope of application of this class of insurance products. The details of the analysis are presented
in Chapter 5, where the prototypes developed for this study are illustrated and the operational and
commercial challenges of WII discussed.

Features, Advantages and Disadvantages of WII

82.      The essential feature of WII is that the insurance contract responds to an objective
parameter (e.g., measurement of rainfall or temperature) at a defined weather station during
an agreed-upon time period. The parameters of the contract are set so as to correlate, as
accurately as possible, with the loss of a specific crop type suffered by the policyholder. All
policyholders within a defined area receive payouts based on the same contract and measurement
at the same station, eliminating the need for field loss assessment.

83.     The suitability of WII to transfer weather risks depend on how strong is the correlation
between the weather parameter and the crop yield, and how spatially correlated is the risks.
WII is best suited to transfer weather risks, where these risks are well-correlated over a
widespread area and where there is a strong correlation between weather and crop yield. The
strongest relationships typically involve a single crop, a marked rainy season, and no irrigation.
WII is less suited to transfer weather risks where more complex conditions exist. Localized risks,
such as hail, or where microclimates exist (for example, in mountainous areas) are not suitable for
WII. Similarly, the scope for WII is limited where crop production is impacted by many or
complex causes of loss or where pest and disease are major influences on yields.

84.      The features of spring wheat crop production in north of Kazakhstan, indicate that
WII is a potentially suitable risk transfer product for this crop. Spring wheat is almost a
monoculture in North Kazakhstan, the region enjoys a marked rainy season, and crop production
is fully rain fed. Furthermore, the analysis presented in this report of cumulative season rainfall
deficit and spring wheat yields for a sample selection of stations and rayons, in general, exhibits
very high correlations and this suggests there is considerable scope for GRK to continue research
into the development of rainfall deficit WII cover for spring wheat in the northern region.

85.     As for AYII, basis risk is the key constraint of WII. ―Basis‖ can be defined as the
difference between the loss experienced by the farmer and the payout triggered by the weather
index. It could result in a farmer experiencing a yield loss, but not receiving a payout or also in a
payout being triggered without any loss being experienced. WII works best where losses are
homogenous in the defined area, and highly correlated with the weather peril.

86.      WII can be retailed at different business levels. At the micro level, the policyholders
(the insurer‘s customers) are individual farmers, households, or small business owners who
purchase insurance to protect themselves from potential losses caused by adverse weather events.
At the meso level, the insurance policy is issued to an organization that has economic interests
that are contingent to the results of agricultural activities including, for example, a financial
institution or a cooperative that lends to the rural sector that wants to protect itself for eventual
default of the loans given to farmers due to unfavorable weather conditions during the crop
season. or an input supplier. At the macro level, the insurance policy is settled to a government
or a national organization. The insured interest in the case of macro level coverages is usually


                                             - xxvii -
related to government disaster relief for small farmers (see Mexican Macro-level index programs
are presented in Box 6.1) or with food security issues.

Weather data and contract design

87.     Under this study, a prototype WII product design prefeasibility analysis for drought
peril in spring wheat production in 6 selected rayons in north Kazakhstan region. The
prototype WII product design prefeasibility analysis has been performed based on rainfall
information provided by Kazhydromet (KHM) for 9 weather stations situated in the selected
rayons and/or in neighboring rayons, which fully complied with the best practice for the design
and operation of WII. The prototype WII product design prefeasibility analysis followed a
widely used methodology developed by the Agriculture Risk Management Team (ARMT) of the
World Bank and specific additional indexing procedures that were developed for the spring wheat
environment of North of Kazakhstan.

88.      WII may be technically feasible to transfer drought risk in spring wheat crop
production in north Kazakhstan region. In six out of the nine rayon yield-weather station
combinations analysed, it was possible to develop meaningful rainfall deficit WII structures.
However, while this applies for the areas surrounding the specific weather stations analyzed, an
actual full scale implementation of a micro level (farm level) WII program may be hindered by
the relatively low density of the weather network. Taking as a reference the nine cases examined,
in Kazakhstan, distances between contiguous weather stations start from a minimum of 70 km,
(against conventional wisdom that for rainfall WII, stations should be no further than 20km to 25
km apart), which is probably too large for assuming the possibility of granting a full micro WII
coverage of the entire territory.

89.      The potential implementation of macro-level or meso-level WII contracts, which are
less reliant on the weather station network than the micro-level WII, could have good chances
of being relatively rapidly implemented. While in the medium term it may be possible to
overcome the structural constraints related to the insufficient density of weather stations for the
development of micro-level WII, in the short term a widespread full scale implementation of WII
at farm level does not seem to be realistic. In this regard, the implementation of WII contracts at
meso or macro levels, that may be less influenced by the density of the weather network, could
have greater chances of being rapidly implemented than the micro-level approach.

Basis Risk

90.      Preliminary analyses conducted under this study suggest the existence of a relevant
basis risk dimension for individual farmer WII cover. Basis risk is defined as the potential
mismatch between the actual financial losses due to an insured event suffered by the farmer on
his farm, and the payouts received from the insurance. During the study a basis risk assessment
of WII was performed for a limited sample of farmers situated within 25 kilometers of the
selected weather stations for the 2010 spring wheat crop year. The results of this analysis suggest
the existence of a basis risk dimension and it highlights the importance of carefully evaluating the
basis risk component embedded in farm level WII products.

Cost of WII

91.      In case of being implemented to cover drought on spring wheat crop production in
North Kazakhstan, WII would be a relatively expensive product. The analysis carried out in the
feasibility study shows that Indicative Commercial Premium Rates of the technically acceptable
contract structures range from 13.7% in relatively good crop areas to 24.2% in marginal areas.


                                             - xxviii -
This is a clear indication of the high potential cost of using WII contract for insuring against
drought.

Meso level WII and reinsurance

92.      A specific form of meso level application of WII could be the use of index contracts as
a reinsurance coverage for insurance companies involved in agricultural insurance programs.
The analysis carried out in the study shows that it is actually possible to structure drought
insurance products for spring wheat production by calibrating weather indexes on Rayon level
yield records. These structures could technically form the basis of a reinsurance transaction.

Conclusions on WII

93.    The analysis carried out in this feasibility study indicates that WII for spring wheat in
the North of Kazakhstan is technically feasible.

94.     Despite the positive technical findings, the actual density of the weather measurement
network does not seem to make a full scale implementation of farm level WII a realistic option
in the short term. While potential actions to address this constraint may be undertaken including
GRK‘s current investments in new weather stations, for the time being individual farmer WII
cannot be considered a readily implementable alternative to the current LIC insurance scheme.

95.    In addition, the high potential cost of WII products developed in the analysis, together
with a preliminary analysis of basis risk patterns, suggest the need to carry out further
research to assess the potential interest of famers for such an alternative insurance approach.



Tailoring Crop Insurance to the Needs of Small Farmers in South
Kazakhstan
96.     The final section of this report presents some of the international lessons and
experience on strategies and programs to address the agricultural risk transfer and insurance
needs of small farmers and which may be applicable to the small household mixed crop and
livestock farming sectors which are mainly located in southern Kazakhstan.

Identification of Appropriate Crop Insurance Products

97.     No “one-size” fits all. To date, Crop Insurers in Kazakhstan have offered a single Loss
of Investment Cost (LIC) crop insurance product to mainly medium and large cereal producers
located in northern Kazakhstan and there has been very little debate about the appropriateness of
this product to small and marginal farmer in southern Kazakhstan.

98.     There is a wide range of crop insurance product types available internationally and
this report has recommended that in future Kazakhstan’s crop insurers should aim to develop
and introduce several of these alternative crop insurance products. The products that have been
recommended for individual farmers include named peril (hail) crop insurance, MPCI loss of
yield insurance and new non- traditional index products, area yield index insurance (AYII) and
crop weather index insurance (WII). The suitability of each crop insurance product type should
be studied carefully in the context of the types of farmer (commercial, semi-commercial,
subsistence) and farming systems (irrigated versus non-irrigated) in southern Kazakhstan.



                                            - xxix -
99.     Traditional individual farmer MPCI is a risk management tool that is often
appropriate for commercial and semi-commercial farmers: however, it cannot provide
solutions for subsistence farmers. There is much evidence today that traditional individual
farmer multiple peril crop insurance (MPCI) does not work for small and marginal farmers and
usually ends up being heavily subsidized by governments. For most small subsistence farmers
producing food crops for on-farm family consumption, crop insurance is a luxury few of them can
afford, hence governments‘ intervention to make crop insurance more affordable through
premium subsidies. In Kazakhstan crop insurance is unlikely to be a useful intervention for the
very small rural households were these are mainly subsistence producers.

100.     For subsistence farmers it may be much more cost-effective for governments to
examine alternative social safety nets or, where they elect to use insurance, to consider some
form of macro-level weather index programme to permit early payments to be made in the
event of a major natural disaster. To date, several countries including Ethiopia, Malawi and
Mexico have designed macro-level rainfall deficit index covers that have been designed to
provide national and or regional governments with immediate cash liquidity following a natural
disaster and to enable the government to provide an early response.

Tailoring Crop Insurance to Different Client Levels

101.    Crop Index Insurance (including both AYII and WII) is potentially a very flexible
instrument which can be designed to provide risk transfer solutions at different levels of
Aggregation. Index products can be offered at three levels: i) at the individual farmer-level
(termed Micro-level insurance) , ii) at an intermediate level of aggregation as a financial business
interruption protection for banks and other lending organizations such as cooperatives and MFI‘s
(Meso-level insurance) and finally iii) this is an instrument that regional and or national
governments can use to insure against major systemic perils such as drought (Macro-level
insurance).

102.    In Kazakhstan there may be opportunities for government to use macro-level index
insurance as a catastrophe drought insurance mechanism. Mexico has for nearly a decade
operated a system of AYII and WII catastrophe climatic insurance programs which provide
insurance protection to the state-level governments against crop failure among their small scale
subsistence farmers. This macro-level index approach may offer solutions to severe drought
losses in WKO and Aktobe which are not be insurable under a commercial individual farmer
insurance program. The applications of such a macro-level cover for small subsistence farmers in
South Kazakhstan Oblast (SKO) appears more limited because of the highly heterogeneous
farming systems which do not lend themselves to macro-index solutions.

Insurance Delivery Systems for Small Farmers

103.     Insurance companies throughout the World face major challenges in trying to identify
cost-effective ways of delivering and administering agricultural crop and livestock insurance
programs for small famers. In Kazakhstan this problem is accentuated because of the very low
sums insured adopted under the Obligatory Crop Insurance scheme with an average sum insured
over the past five years of only KZT 3,287/Ha (US$ 22/Ha) and an average premium rate of only
2.42% generating an average premium of about KZT 80 per insured hectare (US$ 0.53/Ha). In
other words, a farmer with only 100 Ha would on average generate a total premium of about US$
53 and this sum is far too low to enable Kazakhstan‘s commercial crop insurers to cover their
A&O costs on such small farm units.




                                              - xxx -
104.    In southern Kazakhstan there may be considerable potential for Commercial Insurers
to enter into a “Partner-Agent” relationship with rural organizations (e.g. the Cooperatives or
MFIs) which have an existing rural distribution network and a large farmer membership.
Under a Partner-Agent Model, the Insurance company enters into a formal contractual agreement
with the Agent under which the Agent assumes responsibility for marketing and promoting the
Insurer‘s policies to its membership, for collecting premiums from Insured‘s and paying these
over to the Insurer, for notifying claims to the Insurer, and finally in some cases for distributing
claims settlement payments to the Insured‘s. Usually the Insurer will agree to pay the Agent a
commission for its services. This model would potentially enable the private commercial insurers
in Kazakhstan to deliver crop insurance more cost-effectively to large numbers of small and
medium farmers. Such a model could also be used for delivering livestock insurance to the small
mixed cropping and livestock families predominantly located in southern Kazakhstan.

Mutual Insurance as a Solution for Small and Marginal Farmers in Kazakhstan

105.     The Farmer Mutual Insurance Associations have been heavily promoted by GRK since
2008 and if their financial status could be strengthened the Mutuals might be the ideal
institutional vehicle to underwrite Kazakhstan’s small and marginal crop and livestock
producers. Currently about 38 Farmer Mutual Crop Insurance Associations (FMCIAs) are
underwriting the Obligatory LIC crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan. These Mutuals have very
limited financial reserves and none are formally protected by any form of insurance or
reinsurance protection. The individual Mutuals are therefore very exposed to catastrophe losses
which exceed their reserves. In the event that claims exceed their reserves such as happened in
2010, Section 4 reported that the Mutuals had to pro rata down each claim settlement made to
their members who incurred losses. International experience shows that when catastrophe claims
occur which cannot be paid by the Mutual this often leads to the collapse of the Mutual.

106.     If the Mutuals are to remain solvent and to underwrite crop and or livestock insurance
for small and marginal farmers in Kazakhstan, ways of providing some form of catastrophe
reinsurance protection must be developed. In the short-term it is unlikely that the private
commercial insurance sector in Kazakhstan or international reinsurers would be willing to
provide excess of loss reinsurance protection to the Mutuals. It is likely therefore that such a
program would have to be offered through the Public Sector and given the FFSA‘s experience
with administering the financial claims subsidies on the Obligatory LIC program, the FFSA
would be best placed to administer some form of excess of loss program for the Mutual Crop
Insurance Associations in Kazakhstan. In this context, policy makers in Kazakhstan may wish to
study the Mexican ―Fondos de Aseguramiento‖ (Self Insurance Funds, SIFs) program which is an
example of a very successful small farmer mutual crop and livestock insurance scheme which is
formally reinsured by Agroasemex, the national Agricultural Reinsurance Company. See Section
6 for further details of the Fondos program.




                                             - xxxi -
Chapter 1: Introduction and Objectives of the Study


1.1.     The Republic of Kazakhstan is located in Central Asia. It is the ninth largest country in
the world with an area of 2,724,900 sq km (1,049,150 sq miles) and is landlocked. Kazakhstan
shares common borders with China, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and the Russian
Federation: the total length of its borders amount to 12,187 km. The territory of the Republic of
Kazakhstan (RK) stretches some 3,000 Km from the low reaches of the Volga in the West to the
foothills of the Altai Mountains in the East, and about 2,000 Km from the West Siberian lowland
in the North to the desert of Kyzylkum and the mountain range of Tien Shan in the South.

1.2.   Kazakhstan, with a GDP US$ 6.3 billon US$ is the largest economy in Central Asia.
The country was formerly part of the Soviet Union and gained independence in 1991.
Administratively Kazakhstan is comprised of 14 regions, or Oblasts. Map 1.1 shows the
administrative divisions of Kazakhstan.

Map 1.1. Republic of Kazakhstan. Administrative Division




Source: Wikipedia (2010)

Importance of Agriculture in Kazakhstan
1.3.    Agriculture is a very important economic sector in Kazakhstan. Agriculture occupies a
key position in the Kazakh economy. Agriculture contributes 5.92%5 of Kazakhstan‘s GDP.
Although agricultural output contracted sharply during the transition phase following
independence in 1991, output has steadily recovered since 1998. During 1998–2010, total
agricultural output increased at an average real annual rate of 5.21%. Most of this growth was a
consequence of increases in crop production (+84 percent) while livestock grew in real terms by a
modest 7%. Despite the recovery of agricultural production, its share in the economy shrank
because of strong growth in other sectors, particularly in the extractive oil industry.

5
 The Economist Intelligence Unit (2011). GDP values calculated as average for the period 2006-2010.
(The Economist Intelligence Unit Limited, 2011)


                                                - 32 -
1.4.    The agricultural sector is also very important from a social perspective in Kazakhstan.
Approximately 7.3 million people (47.2% of the total population) currently live in rural areas in
the country6. Agriculture employs more than 22% of the labor force in the country. Although the
country is classified as a middle-income country, rural poverty is widespread. The transition
from a centrally-planned to a market economy brought about a decline in many state-provided
agricultural services, and enduring problems of soil degradation and a lack of infrastructure have
resulted in abandonment and underutilization of agricultural land.

1.5.     The natural and climatic conditions in Kazakhstan are favourable for agriculture. The
country is one of the major global producers and exporters of grains (mainly wheat). Other
principal agricultural products include meat, wool, cotton and milk. Farming areas occupy more
than 220 million hectares (about 74% of the country's total area), of which cereal growing areas
occupy about 13-14 million hectares. The area under pastures totals 185.7 million hectares or
68% of the total farming area. Individual farmers, collective farms and organizations utilize 81%
of all farming areas and 98 % of all pastures.

1.6.    Livestock is also a very important agricultural activity in the country. For a country
with a long nomadic history, it is not surprising that stockbreeding is the traditional and dominant
agricultural sector. No less than three quarters of all agricultural land is used for grazing. Sheep
breeding is predominant, while cattle breeding and the rearing of pigs, horses and camels are also
well developed. Animal husbandry typically accounts for about 45% of the production value in
agriculture in Kazakhstan. Primary meat products include beef, veal, chicken, horse, lamb, pork
and rabbit.

Agricultural Crop Production in Kazakhstan
1.7.     Kazakhstan is an important crop producer and exporter in Central Asia. Kazakhstan is
an important producer and exporter of high-quality wheat. In 2010 Kazakhstan was ranked as the
6th largest wheat exporter, by volume, in the world. Average annual production of wheat is about
13 million tons, but output is highly dependent on weather and in recent years has fluctuated
between 10 and 17 million tons. Between 2 and 8 million tons of wheat is exported annually,
mainly to destinations in Europe (including Russia and Ukraine), northern Africa, and Central
Asia. Kazakhstan also produces around 2 million tons of barley, and a small amount of oats,
corn, and rice, but wheat is by far the country‘s most important commodity. The production of
oilseeds (sunflower seed and rapeseed) is increasing but total oilseed output remains well below
1.0 million tons. The country also grows a small amount of cotton in southern Kazakhstan, with
annual lint output of about 100,000 tons.

1.8.    Crop production is mostly concentrated on grain crops in northern Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan consists of 14 administrative regions, or Oblasts. About 75 percent of the country‘s
wheat is produced in three oblasts in north-central Kazakhstan: Kostanay, Akmola, and NKO
(See Map 1.2 showing main crop producing areas). Kostanay alone plants about 4 million
hectares of wheat per year. Spring wheat occupies 95 percent of the total wheat area in
Kazakhstan and virtually all of the wheat in the three north-central oblasts. Minor grains include
spring barley and oats (which are grown in the same region as spring wheat), winter wheat
(southern Kazakhstan.), and rice (southern Kazakhstan, mostly in Kzyl-Orda Oblast). Oilseed
area has nearly doubled in the past five years but still accounts for only about 6 percent of the
country‘s total crop area. Sunflower, which is Kazakhstan‘s main oilseed crop, is grown mostly

6
 Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in United States. Web page:
http://www.kazakhembus.com/index.php?page=national-goals-and-initiatives


                                               - 33 -
in eastern Kazakhstan. Rape seed is grown in north-central Kazakhstan. Cotton is grown only in
southern Kazakhstan.

Map 1.2: Main Wheat Crop Production areas in Kazakhstan and Russia




Source: Authors based on ARKS

1.9.    The crop farming sector is highly heterogeneous in terms of farm structure and
productivity. The Northern region is dominated by large Agricultural Enterprises (also termed
Production Enterprises) specialized in crop production, whereas smaller mixed Peasant Farms
(also termed Commercial Farms) and Household plots predominate in the South. The total
agricultural land area increased by about 6% between 2003 and 2007 including, growth of 4% in
the area of arable land and 6% in the areas of hayfields and pastures. The share of agricultural
land farmed by Production Enterprises has declined from 59% to 50% during 2003-2007, while
land farmed by individual Commercial Farms has increased from 41% to 49%. Commercial
farmers have slightly reduced their arable land (by 0.14 million ha) while increasing their
hayfields and pastures (by 8.47 million ha) between 2003 and 2007. In contrast the Production
Enterprises have increased their arable area (by 0.92 million ha) and decreased their hayfields and
pastures (by 5.14 million ha).

1.10.     The Agro-Industrial sector of Kazakhstan still suffers from a number of problems
which result in low productivity and profitability. Kazakhstan‘s labour efficiency in agriculture
is five times lower than in the Eastern Europe, even lower than in Russia and in Ukraine. The
agricultural machinery fleet in Kazakhstan, although in the process of being updated, is aged.
According to ARKS, a high portion of Kazakhstan‘s current fleet (including 77 percent of its
tractors and 59 percent of its harvesters), was more than 15 years old at the time of the 2006
agricultural census. Improvements in crop management practices funded by expanding State
subsidies have contributed to higher and more stable wheat yields. Beginning around 2002,
government support for agriculture has increased significantly in the form of subsidies on the
prices of fuel, seed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals.




                                              - 34 -
Government Policy for Agriculture
1.11. The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan (GRK) is encouraging diversification
of the country’s economy to reduce its dependence on oil, whose price volatility and resulting
fluctuations in revenues make budget management challenging. The GRK recognizes the
importance of the agricultural sector in diversifying economic growth, reducing rural poverty and
in contributing to improved food security. The GRK‘s main strategies for agriculture are set out
in the Strategic Plan elaborated by the GRK every three years. The Strategic Plan 2009-2011
defines three strategic objectives for the agricultural sector in Kazakhstan. The first strategic
objective is the sustainable development of the agro-industrial complex sectors, increasing their
competitiveness, ensuring food security and adaptation of agrarian production to the WTO
accession conditions. The second strategic objective is the preservation, rational use and
rehabilitation of forest resources, fauna resources and natural reserves, as well as establishment of
conditions for sustainable water supply and efficient water management. The third strategic
objective for agriculture defined in the plan is to establish normal conditions for rural welfare
based on optimization of rural settlements, ensuring growth of rural territories‘ capacity through
integrated rural development.

1.12. The GRK has significantly increased its support to the agricultural sector since the end
of the 1990s7. This is evidenced by the introduction of support measures including a significant
budget allocation increase and institutional improvements, such as new laws and institutional
reorganizations. The budget allocation to agriculture reached KZT 390.7 billion (around US$ 2.7
billion) in 20108, which represents 8.76 percent of the total budget allocations in Kazakhstan for
2010 and 36% of agricultural GDP (World Bank 2010). The most important budget allocations
are for (i) development of rural finance associated with agricultural machinery and (ii) crop
production, such as marketing, phytosanitary activities, soil fertility, and other crop production
supporting activities. GRK expenditures for livestock production are much smaller than the
government expenditures for crop production, even though livestock contributes about 44% of
total agricultural output. The type of GRK expenditures in supporting the agricultural sector is
varied and can be classified as follows: (i) direct input subsidies; (ii) subsidized credit programs
(i.e. with reduced interest rates), (iii) market price support schemes (such as the one carried out by
the Food Contract Corporation to stabilize grain prices and maintain state reserves), (iv)
expenditure on developing public goods (such as market information, land title and registration,
disease control, seeds and grain quality analysis and grading) and expenditure on forestry and
fisheries.

Exposure of Agriculture to Natural and Climatic Disasters
1.13. Agricultural production in Kazakhstan is an extremely risky economic endeavor. A
large portion of risks associated with agricultural production in Kazakhstan is due to climate
events. Drought is the most pervasive peril affecting crop production in Kazakhstan. Reasonably
higher levels of agricultural productivity can be achieved during years of adequate rainfall, but
the region is subject to frequent drought and is considered a zone of risky agriculture.
Historically, Kazakhstan‘s agricultural production suffers from serious drought events. As a
result, the agricultural value added in Kazakhstan is marked by frequent and sharp year-to-year
fluctuations. Besides droughts, the occurrence of hailstorms and autumn `early frost are also

7

Kazakhstan: Public Expenditure and Institutional Review for the Agricultural Sector. World Bank (2010)
8
  Economist Intelligence Unit: Current policy: The 2010 budget deficit is below the government's target.
March 2nd 2011. http://country.eiu.com/article.aspx?articleid=987853083.


                                                  - 35 -
important perils affecting crop production in the country, and pests and disease outbreaks can also
lead to severe crop losses. Figure 1.1 shows the relation between the fluctuations9 in the annual
agricultural GDP growth and the occurrence of major drought years (highlighted in yellow).

    Figure 1.1. Kazakhstan: Historic Agricultural GDP Growth and occurrence of droughts

                           Kazakhstan: Agriculture Value added (annual % growth)
            29%
                                                               21%
                                                                             17%
                                                                                                                                      13%
                                                                                                          7% 6% 9%
                                                                                     3% 2% 0%
                                                -1%                   -3%
                   -7%                   -5%                                                                                   -6%
                                                                                                                                             -12%
                          -21%-24%                     -19%
    -23%
                                                1997
     1991
            1992
                   1993
                           1994
                                  1995
                                         1996


                                                        1998
                                                               1999
                                                                      2000
                                                                              2001
                                                                                     2002
                                                                                            2003
                                                                                                   2004
                                                                                                          2005
                                                                                                                 2006
                                                                                                                        2007
                                                                                                                               2008
                                                                                                                                      2009
                                                                                                                                              2010
                                                         Year reported with drought

Source: Authors from World Bank. World Development Indicators (2010); The Economist Intelligence
Unit (20011); Kazakh-Hydromet (2010)


Government objectives for crop insurance
1.14. The GRK has three objectives for crop insurance. The first government objective for
crop insurance is to protect the famers‘ against loss of their crop production due to the effects of
adverse natural, climatic and biological hazards. Kazakhstan is one of the most exposed countries
in the world to drought losses in spring wheat followed by late spring and harvest frosts, hail
and crop pests and diseases – GRK seeks through crop insurance, to protect small and medium
farmers from going bankrupt following major crop losses. The second government objective
towards crop insurance is to assist farmers‘ to gain access to rural finance by creating the
conditions for lending through providing farmers with an insurance collateral to be used to protect
their loans against default in the event of major crop losses. The third objective of GRK with
regards to crop insurance is to assist in enhancing the effectiveness of government support
programs for crop production.


9
  Caution should be exercised in interpreting the GDP shortfalls in the years 1993, 1994, and 1995 as the
GDP decline in these years is not related only to drought. In the early 1990‘s, following the breakup of the
Soviet Union and the loss of massive government subsidies for State and Collective farms and livestock
enterprise there was a sharp decline in agricultural productivity. Local agricultural officials began to set
productivity thresholds for individual fields. Fields that consistently failed to meet the threshold --
typically 0.6 to 0.7 tons per hectare against a national average of about 0.9 tons per hectare -- were taken
out of grain production and converted to permanent pasture. The decline in grain area accelerated in the
mid-1990s when shrinking livestock inventories caused feed-grain demand to plummet, leading to a 75-
percent drop in barley area between 1993 and 1999. During these six years, total grain area in Kazakhstan
contracted at the rate of nearly 2 million hectares per year.




                                                                             - 36 -
1.15. In 2004, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan enacted a Law on Compulsory
Crop Insurance. In accordance with its objectives towards agricultural insurance, GRK enacted
a Law on Compulsory Crop Insurance dated March 10, 2004 and this Law became effective on
April 1, 2004. The law established the terms and conditions for the implementation of a
mandatory salvage-based loss of investment costs crop insurance10 scheme for all farmers
growing a range of strategic grain, oilseed and other field crops grown in Kazakhstan.. Under the
Law, the insurance indemnity is determined in accordance with the normative production cost per
hectare for each crop type, multiplied by the planted area of the insured crop. The insured loss is
determined as ―a positive difference between the normative cost per one hectare of crop
production, which is set at the moment of concluding an insurance contract, and the revenue from
one hectare of crop production in the area affected by the adverse natural events, multiplied by
the exact area on which the given crop was produced and which was affected by an adverse
weather event‖.

1.16. The Kazakhstan crop insurance system is based on a public private partnership (PPP).
The Law on Compulsory Crop Insurance created the institutional framework and regulated and
established the legal, financial and organizational basis for the implementation of crop insurance.
The implementing agencies of the current crop insurance system in Kazakhstan are MoA (through
the Direction of Strategic Planning), the Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture (FFSA), the
private commercial insurance companies and the Farmers‘ Mutual Crop Insurance Associations
(FMCIA) and finally the local authorities in each Oblast and Rayon. Under the PPP, GRK
provides financial contributions to the crop insurance scheme through an Indemnity Fund, termed
the ―Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture‖ (FFSA). GRK supports agricultural insurance
by paying 50% of the insurance indemnities reported by the insurance companies. This is similar
to a free 50% quota-share reinsurance facility. Government payouts are made both to private
insurance companies and to the FMCIAs.

1.17. Crop insurance has reached high levels of penetration in Kazakhstan which is a
function of its obligatory nature; however, the system is experiencing serious drawbacks. The
crop insurance penetration in Kazakhstan, averaging 74 percent of the cropped area for the period
2005-2010, is relatively high. Notwithstanding the high level of penetration reached by
obligatory crop insurance in the country, the experience to date with the mandatory crop
insurance highlights the operational and financial drawbacks with its implementation. From 2005
to 2010 the average annual loss ratio after 50 percent government reimbursement of claims is 75
percent, indicating that the program is currently not financially sustainable. In addition to the
financial drawbacks, the crop insurance system has also experienced operational problems. These
operational problems are evidenced by the low level of sum insured chosen by the farmers to
insured their crops or an average of US$ 25.7 per hectare in 2010. From a financial point of view
the insurers and mutuals are very exposed to catastrophe drought losses due to the fact that the
obligatory crop insurance system is not currently reinsured again excess losses.

Objectives and scope of the study
1.18. The overall objective of the current study is to assist Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan to improve the existing mandatory crop insurance program. The specific
objectives of this World Bank study include: (i) to perform a crop and weather risk assessment for

10
  The Salvage-based Loss of Investment Costs Crop Insurance policy (termed ―Loss of Investment Cost‖
policy for short) protects farmers against adverse natural, climatic and biological phenomena resulting in
production shortfalls that cause farmers‘ expected revenues from the insured crop in the insured unit to fall
short in respect the investments they made in growing the crop in their insured unit(s)


                                                   - 37 -
key crops; (ii) to review the current crop insurance scheme; (iii) to identify the potential gaps of
the current crop insurance scheme and to provide recommendations for its improvement, based on
international experience and best practice; (iv) to identify opportunities for the development of
alternative crop insurance products including area-yield index insurance(AYII) and weather index
insurance (WII), as well as hail named-peril crop insurance; and (v) to identify ways to tailor the
provision of crop insurance to small farmers and the rural poor (particularly in the southern part
of the country).

1.19. The study aims to identify sustainable market-based alternatives to the current crop
insurance system in Kazakhstan. In this regard, all the options for improvement of the current
crop insurance system that have been developed under this study are marked- based and take into
account global experience and the best insurance and reinsurance industry practices for
agricultural insurance.

1.20. The study follows the principles established in the agriculture risk management
framework developed by the World Bank. The development of market-based agricultural
insurance risk transfer solutions in the region also implies promotion of several practices,
including establishment of: (i) an adequate agricultural risk management framework for the
countries in the region, which would include farmers‘ segmentation, an accurate assessment of
the risk faced by the agricultural sector, an adequate risk financing strategy for the agricultural
risks, and proper institutional arrangements; (ii) well identified roles of the public sector,
insurance industry, and the farmers with regards to agricultural insurance; and (iii) possible
actions to be taken by the governments in order to support agricultural insurance.

1.21. The study is mainly focussed on spring wheat crop production in the main growing
regions of Kazakhstan. Owing to the geographical size of the country, the study is limited to
spring wheat grown in the eight main spring crop production Oblasts in Kazakhstan (namely:
NKO, Akmola, Kostanay, Aktobe, Pavlodar, WKO, EKO, and finally Karaganda). The study
also explores opportunities for crop insurance development for small farmers in Tole-Bi rayon in
SKO. For those activities related to the identification of opportunities for new crop insurance
product development (Crop hail, AYII and WII), the study is limited to a pre-feasibility analysis
and the eventual development of prototypei products for spring wheat in a couple of selected
rayons in the North and East (including Altynsarinski and Auliyekolski Rayons in Kostanay
Oblast; Aktogaiski and Zhelezinski Rayons in Pavlodar Oblast; Bulandinski and Enbekshilderski
Rayons in Akmola Oblast), and finally Tole-bi Rayon in SKO. The Oblasts and Rayons selected
for the analysis of new crop insurance product opportunities are highlighted in red in Map 1.3.




                                              - 38 -
Map 1.3. Oblasts under the scope of the Agricultural Insurance Feasibility Study and
selected Rayons for Agricultural Insurance Prototype Development.




                                          Source:Authors

Report Outline
1.22. The study is set out in six sections. Section two presents an overview of agricultural
production systems and markets in Kazakhstan followed by an assessment of the climatic hazards
and other risks affecting spring wheat in the main crop areas in Kazakhstan. Section three
reviews the current mandatory crop insurance system in Kazakhstan and its performance and
identifies a series of institutional, operational, technical, and financial drawbacks of the current
system. Section four presents a phased strategy and a series of options and recommendations for
GRK to consider for the introduction of market-based solutions that aim to strengthen the current
crop insurance scheme. Section five explores the opportunities for new crop insurance product
development in Kazakhstan including pre-feasibility analyses for AYII, WII and named peril hail
insurance for selected Rayons in the country. Finally section six deals with challenges of
tailoring crop insurance to the needs of lower income smaller farmers. .




                                              - 39 -
            Chapter 2: Crop and Weather Risk Assessment


Objectives and Scope of Agricultural Crop and Weather Risk Assessment
2.1.    To date, in Kazakhstan there has been little formal risk assessment for crop insurance
purposes of the key climatic, biological, and natural perils and their impact on crop production
and yields and farm incomes. The risk assessment presented in this chapter aims (i) to aid policy
makers and planners in Kazakhstan in understanding the major climatic and natural-peril risk
exposures in spring wheat which is the main food and export crop grown in the country; (ii) to
quantify wherever possible the value of expected spring wheat crop losses in normal and
catastrophe loss years, and (iii) to discuss the implications for any modification of the current
crop insurance program in place in the country. The specific objectives of the agricultural crop
and weather risk assessment are (a) to identify and quantify the key natural, climatic, and
biological perils affecting spring wheat production in Kazakhstan; (b) to quantify the frequency
and severity of the perils affecting spring wheat production; and (c) to define homogeneous
spring wheat crop risk zones and to map them.

2.2.    This Chapter presents a preliminary risk assessment of weather risks and their impact
on spring wheat crop production and yields in north Kazakhstan Region. This chapter starts
with a review of data availability in Kazakhstan for spring wheat risk assessment purposes. This
is followed by an overview of climate and the agro-ecological regions and spring wheat crop
production systems in the selected Oblasts of Kazakhstan, and then an analysis of spring wheat
production and yields and the climatic constraints to production including an analysis of rainfall
data and the relationship to national and rayon-level spring wheat crop production and yields.
The final part of this chapter presents the results of a Crop Risk Assessment Model, CRAM,
which uses time-series rayon-level production and yield data to estimate values of risk, expected
losses and expected claims costs for spring wheat in the eight selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan.
This latter analysis is very relevant to crop insurers‘ understanding of risk accumulation and
maximum expected losses in spring wheat.

Data Availability for Crop and Weather Risk Assessment
2.3.    Data for Spring Wheat crop risk assessment. There are three types of data which are
commonly used in the assessment of climatic risk in crop production (a) time series weather data
(b) crop damage and/or production loss data by cause of loss for each crop and which may also
include estimates of the financial value of the damage or losses and (c) time-series crop area,
production and yield data: the analysis of variance in annual crop production and yield data is
commonly used to design and rate multiple-peril crop insurance, MPCI, programs.

2.4. Kazakhstan has a modern and an efficient national meteorological service known as the
National Hydro-meteorological Service of Republic Kazakhstan, or Kazhydromet (KHM) . The
surface meteorological network of the Republic Kazakhstan managed by KHM includes 260
weather stations (50 automated) and 71 agro-meteorological measurement points. The variables
recorded at most meteorological stations include air temperature, precipitation rate, snow, soil
moisture, and evaporation. The data communication system is well structured but somewhat
obsolete in some of the more remote measurement locations. Each set of observations undergoes
a rather strict quality check process according to WMO standards. Weather data are transferred
to each Oblast Center (CHM) at the appropriate frequency (3 hours for temperature to one dekad



                                              - 40 -
for soil moisture). From the CHM, a communication specialist transfers individual weather
messages into the KHM centralized web server in Astana. The web-server also shares weather
data with other professionals in the country (synoptic specialists, agro meteorologists,
climatologists and to GIS-Meteo).

2.5. Given the huge size of Kazakhstan the weather station density is currently not able to
provide adequate coverage for all the country. According to the World Meteorological
Organization (WMO), Kazakhstan –owing to its size - would need to have approximately 1,600
weather stations in order to achieve an optimum weather station density. KHM continuously
invests in the upgrading of its weather station network. The geographic distribution of the
weather station network in Kazakhstan is presented in Map 2.1.

                       Map 2.1. Kazakhstan: Weather Station Network




                                      Source: KHM 2011

2.6. The weather risk assessment performed under this study is based on the information
provided by KHM. Under this feasibility study, KHM has provided the World Bank with access
to daily rainfall, and minimum and maximum daily temperature data for ten weather stations
located in seven Rayons selected for the development of agricultural insurance prototypes. The
selected weather stations for which the daily data were provided are located in the following
seven Rayons: Auliyekolski and Altynsarinski in Kostanay Oblast; Aktogaiski and Zhelezinski in
Pavlodar Oblast; Bulandinski and Enbekshilderski in Akmola Oblast; and Tolebi in SKO. In
addition to the daily data, KHM also provided monthly rainfall and average minimum and
maximum daily temperature data for the following twenty weather stations located in ten Oblasts
under analysis: Bulaevo and Saumalkol in North Kazakhstan Oblast; Diyevskaya and
Mikhailovka in Kostanay Oblast; Yegendykol and Schuchinsk in Akmola Oblast; Mikhailovka
and Aktogay in Pavlodar Oblast; Kamenka and Chingirlau in WKO; Komsomolskoe and
Novoalekseevka in Aktobe Oblast; Korneevka and Karaganda Agricultural Experimental Station
in Karaganda Oblast; Dmitriyevka and Samarka in EKO; and Shimkent city and Kazygurt in
SKO.

2.7.    Kazakhstan has very good spring wheat crop production statistics records. The ARKS
is responsible for the collection, recording, and management of national crop production data and



                                             - 41 -
statistics in Kazakhstan. ARKS is charged with the recording of seasonal crop acreage,
production and yield data for all major food crops and also for horticultural crops in Kazakhstan.
In addition to ARKS, there is a Department of Statistics, under the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Land Resources Management Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan which is also involved
in the collection of agricultural statistics. A third important source of agricultural statistics is
through the ―household accounting‖ system which is carried out by the regional administrations
(Akimats) of townships, villages (Auls) and rural counties (Rayons). There is a close interaction
between all state bodies within the system of recording of agricultural statistics in Kazakhstan.
The data is collected from all categories of farms engaged in agricultural production and services.
Among them there are Agricultural Enterprises (Production Enterprises - PEs), Peasant Farms
(Commercial Farms - CFs) and Household farms. Statistical observations are conducted on the
basis of the Statistical Register of Agricultural Organizations. This register includes all these
categories of agricultural producers. PEs are covered by a general statistical survey which they
are required to complete and submit on a monthly, quarterly and annual reporting basis. To
obtain data on CFs and Household farms, a system of general farm accounting surveys
(Households accounting books and CF accounting books) is carried out by the rural county
administrations (akimats). The Farm accounting surveys contain complete information on the
area sown by each type of farmer. To determine the volume of agricultural production and
average per hectare yields of the CFs and Household farms, sample statistical surveys (sample
size 30% and 5% respectively of all farms) with semi-annual and annual intervals are conducted.

2.8.     A major statistical analysis at rayon level for spring wheat has been performed under
this World Bank study. Under this study the World Bank has analyzed ARKS 17-year (1994-
2010) time-series annual sown area, harvested area, crop production, and yield data for spring
wheat, with a breakdown into PEs and CFs, for each of the 118 Rayons located in the 8 Oblasts
selected for the analysis (Akmola, Kostanay, NKO, Aktobe, WKO, Pavlodar, EKO, and
Karaganda). The quality of the data was, in general, very good. Only 4.60 percent of the data
entries were missing. This time-series data has enabled a series of useful analyses to be
conducted. To date, preliminary analysis have been made of (i) the Rayon-level, Oblast-level,
and National-level distribution of crop exposure (value at risk) for spring wheat by type of farmer
and overall, (ii) the annual variation in spring wheat crop production and yields at rayon level to
identify the areas of higher yield variability risk, and (iii) to conduct simple correlation analysis
with rainfall variables. Furthermore, these series have been used to develop the risk assessment
models at rayon level to assess the risk exposure for spring wheat as well as to establish expected
yields and illustrative premium rates for i) an individual grower multiple peril crop insurance
(MPCI) program for spring wheat (See Section 4 for further details) and ii) an area AYII program
for spring wheat (see Section 5).

2.9.     In Kazakhstan, there is no systematic monitoring and recording of loss or damage to
spring wheat production arising from natural perils including floods and droughts. In some
countries, public sector organizations (Ministries of Agriculture or the Agencies responsible for
Natural Disaster management) systematically record crop damage (area damaged and percentage
loss of crop production and yields) arising out of major natural and or climatic events (and also
record the cause of loss): usually these estimates of damages are used to make public sector
compensation payments to farmers and rural households in the affected areas. Time-series crop
damage data is therefore very useful for analyzing the frequency and severity of major events. In
Kazakhstan, it is understood that neither MOA nor the Ministry of Emergency Situations11

11
  According the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan (written communiqué 5
March 2011), between 1996 and 2010 no government financial disaster relief assistance was provided to
farmers affected by natural disasters in Kazakhstan.


                                                - 42 -
systematically record crop damage by cause of loss and therefore, there is no national data-base
of historical damages by cause of loss in crops. Owing to the non existence of a data-base of
historical damages to the crops it has not been possible to access or use crop damage data in this
report. In order to partially overcome this problem the World Bank Team has worked in
establishing the relationships between the spring wheat yield shortfalls and rainfall. The
establishment of the relationships between spring wheat yields and rainfall, allowed the study to
identify drought years. However, owing to the lack of information in the country, it was not
possible to identify years with losses due to other perils such as hail or freeze.

Climate and Agro-ecological Regions
2.10. Kazakhstan experiences a marked continental and dry climate. Kazakhstan experiences
a continental climate with long cold winters and very short hot summers with a short growing
season that varies from as little as 105 days in the most northerly regions to 165 days in the south
(Nomura 2008). Seasonal temperatures are polarized and vary depending on the region. Average
winter temperatures during the day are -16°C to -18°C in the far north and about -6°C in the
south; summer temperatures average 21°C in the north and 27°C in the south. Snow starts to fall
around November and the mountain passes are snow-bound until April and sometimes even into
May. Precipitation in the spring wheat crop production areas in Kazakhstan is very low. Total
annual rainfall in north Kazakhstan averages from 280 millimeters per year in Aktobe Oblast to
400 millimeters in NKO. The rainfall in north Kazakhstan is distributed throughout the year with
a peak during the months of June, July, and August. In South Kazakhstan the rainfall is also
distributed throughout the year but with peak winter rainfall and a pronounced dry season during
the months of June, July, and August. In the South Kazakhstan region the total annual rainfall is
higher than in north Kazakhstan: for example in SKO the average annual rainfall for the period
1990 to 2010 is 556 millimeters. Although precipitation is higher in southern Kazakhstan on
account of very high evapotranspiration levels most agriculture is dependent on irrigation. Map
2.2 shows the monthly distribution of rainfall for 10 selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan.




                                              - 43 -
     Map 2.2. Kazakhstan: Monthly Rainfall distribution for selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan




                                                                                               Source:
                        Authors based on rainfall data provided by Kaz-hydromet.

2.11. In Kazakhstan drought events are determined by two important atmospheric
circulation patterns that affect inter annual rainfall variability. The so called ―Azores High‖
affects rather homogeneously the entire country by generating anticyclones (usually associated to
dry conditions) that move from west to east, while the so called ―Siberian low‖ generates
anomalies of opposite signs in the east and west of Kazakhstan. A consequence of the interplay
of these patterns of atmospheric circulation is that west/central Kazakhstan is usually dry,
whereas more favorable conditions for agriculture are found to the north-east.12 How widespread
or localized a drought event may be is influenced by the interaction of such circulation patterns.

2.12. The country is divided into sixteen agro-ecological zones according to the temperature
and water availability for plant growth. The flat areas of the country can be divided according to
the cumulative temperature suitable for crop growing and humidity factor by hydrothermal ratio
(HTR). Under this criterion the territory of Kazakhstan can be divided into 9 agro climatic zones:
from poor moderate – warm (zone I) to very dry and hot (zone IX). The hilly and mountainous
areas of Kazakhstan can be divided into additional 7 natural landscape zones (Zones X to XVI).
Temperature increases from South to North, from cumulative temperatures of 4000оС in the south
to cumulative temperatures of 2000оС in the northern parts of the country. Soil moisture content
varies from north to south in Kazakhstan. During the warm summer months the territory of
Kazakhstan is characterized by HTR‘s varying from 0.2 in the south and up to 1.1 in the north of
the country (Image 2.2). An HTR of 1.0-1.3 indicates poor wet zone (forest-steppe), 0.7-1.0 –
arid zone (steppe), 0.5-0.7 – very arid (dry steppe), 0.3-0.5 – dry (semi-desert), less than 0.3 –
very dry (desert). Map 2.3 summarizes the agro-ecological zones of Kazakhstan.


12
  ―Anticyclone‖ conditions imply subsidence of moist air from top layers in the atmosphere, hence less
condensation (dry conditions). ―Cyclone‖ conditions imply convergence of moist air from surface
atmospheric layers, hence more cloud formation (wet conditions).


                                                 - 44 -
  Map 2.3. Kazakhstan: Agro ecological Zones.




Source: ARKA Consulting from KHM

Overview of Spring Wheat Crop Production in Kazakhstan
2.13. Kazakhstan is well endowed with land resources for agricultural production. The
country has 76.5 million hectares of agricultural land. According to the 2006 agricultural census,
61 percent of the agricultural land in Kazakhstan is permanent pasture, and 32 percent is
classified as arable land (systematically cultivated for the production of row crops). Of the
remainder, 3 percent is used for hay production and 4 percent is ―long-term fallow‖ (indicating
potentially arable land that has remained uncultivated for at least several consecutive years). Of
the 24 million hectares of arable land, about two-thirds, approximately 18 million hectares, is
devoted to grain production. Total sown area, including grains, forage crops (mostly perennial
grasses), technical crops (chiefly oilseeds and cotton), and food crops (potatoes, vegetables, and
melons) decreased sharply during the late 1990‘s due to the contraction of the grain and forage-
crop areas.(USDA-FAS, 2010)13

2.14. Kazakhstan privatized its agricultural land in 2003 and today three types of legal entity
are recognized: (i) Agricultural Enterprises (also termed Production Enterprises PEs) many of
which are former state collective farms which have been privatized and which include joint stock
companies, limited liability partnerships and cooperatives, and which are mainly located in
northern and central Kazakhstan and are typically large-scale commercial grain producing
companies (ii) Peasant or Individual farms (also termed Commercial Farms - CFs) which are
generally less than 1,000 Ha and which are also involved in commercial crop and livestock
production and (iii) Household Plots which are not registered and which consist of small family
vegetable plots and livestock holdings which produce mainly for self consumption. Reference to
Table 2.1 shows that in 2004 there were 2.2 million farms in Kazakhstan, the bulk of which or

13
     http://www.pecad.fas.usda.gov/highlights/2010/01/kaz_19jan2010/


                                                  - 45 -
93% were Household Plots accounting for less than 1% of all arable land, but contributing to 50%
of the value of agricultural output. At the other extreme, in 2004, the 4,600 PEs controlled nearly
13 million Ha or 59% of the total arable area with an average size of arable farm of slightly
greater than 2,800 Ha and with some farms as large as 400,000 Ha. Between 2004 and 2007 the
total number of farms increased to 2.4 million. In spite of privatization in 2003, a freely
functioning land market has been slow to develop and much of the former state-owned arable
land has not been privatized and instead is leased to private corporate farms under 49 year leases
(World Bank 2010; Nomura 2008).

Table 2.1. Kazakhstan Farm-Ownership Structure in 2004 (2007)
                                          Commercial Agriculture             Subsistence
                                                                                                          Total
              Item                PEs Agricultural        CFs Peasant       Household Plots
                                 Enterprises (Multiple Farms (Individual      (Individual
                                     Ownership)            ownership)         Ownership)
                                    No          %         No         %         No          %         No            %
 Number of Farms (2007)               7,340     0.3%     194,550     8.1%   2,206,870     91.6%   2,408,760       100%
 Number of Farms (2004)               4,600     0.2%     156,000     7.2%   2,000,000     92.6%   2,160,600       100%
 Labour force (000)                      326    14%            280   12%       1,782       75%       2,388        100%
 Agricultural Land (000 Ha)          43,420     56%       34,228     44%         325      0.4%      77,973        100%
 Arable Land (000 Ha)                12,921     59%        8,816     40%         231        1%      21,968        100%
 Average Arable Farm Size (Ha)        2,809                     57                  0.1                   10
 Gross Agric. Output (KZT Bio)           171    24%            178   26%         349       50%         698        100%
 Sources: World Bank 2010; Nomura 2008


2.15. Kazakhstan is an important producer and exporter of high-quality wheat. Average
annual production is about 13 million tons, but output is highly dependent on weather and in
recent years has fluctuated between 10 and 17 million tons per year. Between 2 and 8 million
tons is exported annually, mainly to destinations in Europe (including Russia and Ukraine),
northern Africa, and Central Asia. Kazakhstan also produces around 2 million tons of barley, and
a small amount of oats, corn, and rice, but wheat is by far the country‘s most important
commodity. The production of oilseeds (sunflower seed and rapeseed) is increasing but total
oilseed output remains well below 1.0 million tons per annum. The country also grows a small
amount of cotton in southern Kazakhstan, with annual lint output at around 100,000 tons.
(USDA-FAS, 2010).

2.16. The main spring wheat crop production areas are situated in Northern Kazakhstan.
About 83 percent of the country‘s spring wheat is produced in four oblasts located in north-
central Kazakhstan: Kostanay, Akmola, Pavlodar, and NKO; 3 percent of the country‘s wheat is
produced in EKO; 4 percent is produced in Karaganda Oblast; and 7 percent in western
Kazakhstan (Aktobe Oblast and WKO). Spring wheat occupies 95 percent of the total wheat area
in Kazakhstan and virtually all of the wheat in the four north-central oblasts. Minor grains
include spring barley and oats (which are grown in the same region as spring wheat), winter
wheat (southern Kazakhstan.), and rice (southern Kazakhstan, mostly in Kzylorda oblast). Out of
the total area planted with spring wheat in north Kazakhstan region, 68 percent is planted by large
Agribusiness Enterprises (farms with more than 1,000 Ha of wheat), while the remaining 32
percent of the area planted with spring wheat is planted by Commercial Farmers (farmers with
between 100 Ha up to 1,000 Ha). Map 2.4 shows the distribution of spring wheat planted area (in
hectares) in the 8 Oblasts of northern and central Kazakhstan at rayon level. The most important



                                               - 46 -
spring wheat rayons with between 320,000 Ha and 640,000 Ha of spring wheat are located in
Kostanay, NKO and Akmola: conversely in EKO and WKO the planted area of spring wheat is
less than 2,500 Ha in many rayons.
         Map 2.4. North Kazakhstan: Planted area with spring wheat at Rayon level.




                            Source: Authors from Agency of Statistics.

2.17. In northern Kazakhstan, on account of the very extreme winter climate all wheat is
spring sown and depends on a combination of snow-melt and summer rainfall. Planting of
spring wheat commences in mid-May once the winter snows have melted and average soil
temperatures have achieved the minimum temperatures (12-15˚ C) for seed germination and crop
growth. In northern Kazakhstan there is a very narrow fortnight‘s sowing window for spring
wheat of between 15 May and 30 May according to the region: wheat which is planted beyond
end May is exposed to early autumn frosts from the beginning of September. Given the very low
spring and summer average rainfall in much of northern Kazakhstan, the level of winter snow-fall
and thus snow melt at the time of sowing is a critical factor in determining the success of the
spring wheat crop: indeed farmers and scientists spoken to advised that they could predict in
April/May whether the harvest would be successful according to the quantity of accumulated
winter snowfall. The main varieties of spring wheat are 90 to 110 day varieties and harvesting
normally starts in late August and runs through to mid-September.

2.18. Most spring wheat in Kazakhstan is grown under extensive farming systems using low
levels of technology and low production costs. Spring wheat production is mechanized, adopting
technical practices which date back to the Soviet Union times. Technology levels are generally
low and the use of chemical fertilizers is extremely low for most farmers. In order to produce 1
MT of spring wheat recommended fertilizer rates are in the order of 35-45 Kg of nitrogen, 8-12
Kg of phosphorous and 17-27 Kg of potassium (Arka Consulting 2011): however, it is understood
that average fertilizer use is much lower than recommended. In general the PEs have better
access to production credit and use higher levels of purchased inputs of seeds, fertilizers and
equipment compared to the CFs. In 2010 average costs of production of wheat varied widely




                                             - 47 -
from a low of about KZT 5,000/Ha (US$ 35/Ha14) for the lowest technology producers to a high
of about KZT 20,000/Ha (US$ 140/Ha) and occasionally as high as KZT 25,000/Ha (US$
170/Ha) for the highest technology producers.

2.19. Wheat prices in Kazakhstan tend to be very volatile. This is evidenced by the variation
in September average farm-gate prices paid to farmers between 2006 and 2010 with a low price
of KZT 12,600/Mt (US$ 104/MT) in September 2006, prices as high as KZT 31,000/Mt (US$
261/MT) in September 2008 which was a severe drought year and when total production was
significantly reduced, an average of KZT 25,000/MT (US$ 172/MT) in September 2009 which
was a good year for spring wheat and then again a major increase in average wheat prices in 2010
which was a very severe drought year to about KZT 35,000/MT. The Food Contract Corporation
(FFC) a State Owned Enterprise is a major player in the Kazakhstan grain market and was
established by government to maintain grain reserves and to stabilize grain prices for the benefit
of producers and consumers: annually it purchases some 10% to 15% of the wheat market and
appears to have a strong influence on farm-gate wheat prices paid by the rest of the market. In
view of the wide fluctuations in wheat prices returns to wheat production are highly variable: in
times of high wheat prices farmers who incur low average costs of production can make high
profits if they achieve average yields of about 10 centners/Ha (1 MT/Ha

2.20. Spring Wheat average yields in Kazakhstan are low. On account of the marginal
climate, long-term soil degradation and low technology use, average yields for spring wheat, are
still low or about10.1 centners per hectare (1.1 MT/Ha) over the past five years. This compares
unfavorably with, for instance, Canada, which has similar climate conditions and where yields
reach 27 centners per hectare (2.7 MT/Ha) or Australia which has a similar extensive crop system
and harvests an average of about 18 centners per hectare (1.8 MT/Ha) of wheat. Spring wheat
yield performance is more variable for Commercial Farmers (CFs) than the larger Production
Enterprises (PEs). While the spring wheat average yield for CFs is 9.6 centners per hectare for
the most recent 5 years, the spring wheat average yield for PEs is on average for the same period
7.5 percent higher or 10.3 centners per hectare. The main reason the PEs, on average, achieve
higher average yields for spring wheat than the CFs is due to their higher use of improved seeds
and fertilizers and improved tillage practices. Spring wheat yield performance is also uneven
throughout the northern areas of the country. The rayons situated in the northern areas of NKO
and Kostanay Oblast show the best performance for spring wheat crops. In these areas average
spring wheat yields are above 12 centners per hectare. The worst performance for spring wheat
crops is observed in WKO, Aktobe15, southern regions of Karaganda Oblast, and south-west of
Pavlodar Oblast. In these areas spring wheat rayon-level 5-year average yields are below 6
centners per hectare. Map 2.5 summarizes the geographical distribution of spring wheat yields at
rayon level throughout the 8 selected Oblasts in north Kazakhstan region. Further details of this
analysis are provided in Annex 1.




14
 At a 2010 exchange rate of KZT 145 = US$ 1.00
15
 It is noted that average spring wheat yields are somewhat higher in two of the most westerly rayons of
WKO and this also applies to two Rayons located in northern Aktobe.


                                                  - 48 -
   Map 2.5. North Kazakhstan: Average Spring Wheat Yields per Rayon from 2006-2010
                                 (Centners/Hectare)




           Source: Authors based on spring wheat yield data provided by Agency of Statistics.
2.21. Spring wheat crop production and yields have improved significantly during the last
decade. Average Spring Wheat yields in the main production areas in North Kazakhstan region
reach 10.1 centers per hectare. Crop management practices fueled by expanding State subsidies
have contributed to higher and more stable wheat yields. Beginning in 2002, government support
for agriculture has increased significantly in the form of reduced (subsidized) prices for fuel,
seed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals. The average wheat yield for 2005 through 2009 is 13
percent higher than the average yield of 1986 through 1990, which was the peak of the so-called
intensive technology movement in the Soviet Union. One of the most interesting developments in
Kazakhstan agriculture in recent years has been the introduction and spread of reduced-tillage
technology. According to the MOA figures, reduced tillage was employed on almost 60 percent
of the sown grain area in 2009, including 1.3 million hectares under zero-tillage. The sector has
also increased the use of fertilizers and certified seeds. The application rates for mineral fertilizer
increased nearly six-fold between 1999 and 2010, and continue to increase due, in part, to the
subsidized fertilizer prices. Arguably the most important technological factor contributing to the
improvement in Kazakhstan grain yield has been the increase in the use of certified seeds. The
government has been providing support to agricultural research facilities, paying 40 percent of the
research and development costs for breeder and foundation seeds. Most spring wheat enterprises
use only first-reproduction seed. However, the machinery inventories are becoming outdated
(particularly in the segment of commercial farmers) and have declined significantly over the past
20 years. Figure 2.1 shows the evolution between 1994 and 2010 of the sown area and yields of
spring wheat in the 9 selected Oblasts in North Kazakhstan region.




                                                - 49 -
  Figure 2.1. North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area and Yields

                   North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area and Yields
14.0                                                                                                       12.7                          16.0
                                              12.4
                                                             11.6                                                         11.3           14.0
12.0                                                                                               10.8
                                                                      10.1
                                                                              9.5                                  9.4                   12.0
10.0                                                  8.7                                   8.4
                                7.5                                                  7.7                                                 10.0
     8.0   7.3
                         6.3                                                                                                      6.4    8.0
     6.0          5.0
                                                                                            y = 1.6032ln(x) + 5.6195                     6.0
     4.0                                                                                           R² = 0.252
                                                4.0                                                                                      4.0
     2.0                                                                                                                                 2.0

     0.0                                                                                                                                 0.0
                                       1998

                                               1999
           1994

                  1995

                         1996

                                1997




                                                      2000

                                                              2001

                                                                       2002

                                                                              2003

                                                                                     2004

                                                                                            2005

                                                                                                    2006

                                                                                                            2007

                                                                                                                   2008

                                                                                                                           2009

                                                                                                                                  2010
                  Sown Area (million hes)                    Yield (Centner/he)                    Log. (Yield (Centner/he))

Source: Authors based on Agency of Statistics data.

2.22. Spring wheat crop production is particularly risky in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan has the
highest yield variation (as expressed by the coefficient of variation, COV in national average
spring wheat yields16) of 29 percent, compared to 5 percent in the European Union, or 8 percent
in Canada. The northernmost areas of the country are less risky for spring wheat production than
the southern, western and eastern areas of the country. In the rayons situated in NKO, north of
Kostanay Oblast and northwestern areas of Akmola Oblast the coefficient of variation (CoV) of
spring wheat yields is less than 40 percent. In the rayons situated in south of Kostanay Oblast and
eastern parts of Akmola Oblast the CoV of spring wheat yields show values between 40 to 50
percent. In Karaganda and western areas of EKO the CoVs for spring wheat are mostly between
50 to 60 percent, except for the rayons situated in the mountainous areas of EKO where the CoVs
are between 40 to 60 percent. Pavlodar shows high CoVs for spring wheat production at rayon
level: on average the CoVs for spring wheat production for the rayons situated in Pavlodar Oblast
are between 50 to 70 percent. The Oblasts situated in the western areas of the country show the
highest level of risk for spring wheat production. For instance, in WKO the average CoV at
rayon level for spring wheat is between 70 percent and 100 percent. Map 2.6 summarizes the
distribution of the CoVs for spring wheat at rayon level in the 8 selected Oblasts in North/Central
Kazakhstan.




16
  The COV is the standard deviation (SD) about mean annual yield divided by the mean yield and
expressed as a percent. A COV of > 100% shows that the SD is larger than the mean yield, or in other
words crop yields are highly variable.


                                                                     - 50 -
       Map 2.6. North Kazakhstan: Coefficients of Variation of Spring Wheat Rayon-Yields




                    Source: Authors based on Agency of Statistics spring wheat data.
2.23. Spring Wheat crops produced by Production Enterprises (PEs) are less risky than
spring wheat crops produced by Commercial Farmers (CFs). The PEs through their use of
higher levels of inputs and technology tend to achieve both higher and less variable (and therefore
less risky) average yields in spring wheat over time than the CFs. The analysis of variance in
spring wheat yields for the 17-year series from 1994 up to and including 2010 shows that the
observed CoV for PEs is on average 10% lower than the spring wheat yield CoV observed for
CFs. This difference is more accentuated in the main spring wheat production areas of Kostanay,
NKO, and Akmola where the observed CoV of Rayon-spring wheat yields for PEs is respectively
16 percent, 27 percent, and 25 percent lower than the CVs for CFs in these same Rayons/Oblasts.
The main reason for the differences in the CoVs of spring wheat yields between PEs and CFs is
the introduction of soil moisture efficient technologies like zero tillage that enables the crop to
perform better during the recurrent droughts that effect Kazakhstan‘s grain producing regions.



Key Climatic Perils and Impact on Crop Production and Yields
2.24.     In northern and central Kazakhstan spring wheat production and yields are highly
influenced by climatic and biological factors. Drought is the most pervasive peril affecting rain-
fed crop production in northern Kazakhstan. Spring wheat crops can also be damaged by the
occurrence of hailstorms, and autumn early frost. Pest and diseases, mainly those fungal diseases
like leaf blotch caused by Septoria tritici and rust caused by Puccinia tritici are also common in
north Kazakhstan region.

2.25. Spring Wheat Yields in Kazakhstan are highly influenced by the occurrence of
droughts17. Reasonably high yields can be achieved during years with adequate rainfall, but the

17
     For a more detailed indication of how the correlation coefficients were determined see note to Box 2.2


                                                     - 51 -
country is subject to frequent drought and is considered a zone of risky agriculture. Historically,
Kazakhstan grain production suffers from serious drought two out of every five years. As a
result, crop production and yields are marked by frequent and sharp year-to-year fluctuations.
The aggregate annual average spring wheat yields for the 8 selected Oblasts in the northern and
central regions of Kazakhstan is highly correlated with the cumulated rainfall/snowfall index
from January to September as shown by the overall (aggregate for the 8 Oblasts) correlation
coefficient18 of 73%. This strong relationship between spring wheat average yields and
cumulated rainfall between January and September is also evidenced at the individual Oblast
level. In this regards, all the selected Oblasts in northern/central Kazakhstan, except NKO and
Karaganda Oblast, show correlation coefficients between annual average spring wheat yields and
cumulated rainfall/snowfall between January and September of each year that are above 0.65
(65%). Figure 2.2 shows the relationship between spring wheat annual average yields and the
total cumulated snowfall/rainfall from January to September for the period 1994 to 2010.

2.26. Spring wheat farmers in Kazakhstan have suffered severe losses due to the occurrence
of drought events. Between 1994 and 2010 crop years, spring wheat has suffered significant crop
losses on six occasions: 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2004, and 2010. Under this study an estimate
has been made of the value of the historical spring wheat production losses in each year (see
summary in Figure 2.3. and Annex 1 for further details). In 1995, a drought affected Kostanay
and Karaganda Oblasts causing estimated production losses in the spring wheat crop valued at
KZT 74.4 billion (equivalent to a 26 percent reduction in the value of production)19. In 1996, a
severe drought affected the western part of the country (WKO and Aktobe oblast) and a
.moderate drought affected the eastern oblasts (Pavlodar and EKO). The total losses due to the
1996 event amounted to KZT 46.4 billion (or a 15 percent reduction in the value of production).
In 1997, the spring production areas in Kazakhstan were affected by drought again. On this
occasion the reduction in the total value of production was only 4 percent of the expected value
for that year. The year 1998 was one of the worst years in terms of drought damage in spring
wheat crop production. The 1998 drought was particularly severe in WKO, Aktobe, Kostanay,
and Akmola Oblasts; but also affected NKO, Pavlodar and Karaganda Oblast. The event caused a
reduction of 51 percent of the expected total spring wheat crop value of production for 1998 (a
loss of KZT 179.4 billion). 2004 and 2005 were also dry years. The total estimated value of
losses amounted to KZT 74 billion (18 percent) in 2004, and KZT 49.1 billion (12 percent) in
2005. The dry conditions in Pavlodar, and East Kazakhstan during 2008 also caused losses on
spring crop production. Most recently, in 2010, a devastating drought affected the main spring
wheat crop production areas throughout much of the country (Kostanay, Akmola, Karaganda,
NKO, and Pavlodar) causing losses amounting to KZT 158.5 billion equivalent to a shortfall of
58% against the expected gross value of spring wheat production of KZT 274.4 billion. Figure
2.3 shows the spring wheat crop production losses from 1994 to crop year 2010.




18
   The interpretation of the correlation coefficient or R value in this case is that 73% of the variation in
Oblast annual yields is explained by the variation in total January to September rainfall each year: this
means that the remaining 27% of yield variation is due to other non-rainfall variables.
19
   Losses calculated in terms of loss gross value of production due to yield shortfalls in respect of the
expected yield for each of the years, assuming sown area and prices as per the most recent 5-year average.


                                                   - 52 -
Figure 2.2. Northern/Central Kazakhstan: Relationship between Spring Wheat Yields and
Total Cumulated Snowfall/Rainfall from January to September




Source: Authors from Kaz-hydromet and Agency of Statistics.
Note: Correlations are computed by a) cumulating for the January - September period precipitation measured at each
of the weather stations for which monthly data has been made available by KHM (see Section 2.6), b) taking the simple
average of each pair of stations belonging to the same Oblast, and c) relating such cumulated precipitation index with
Oblast level spring wheat yield data. The ―Northern/Central Kazakhstan Rainfall Index‖ is calculated by aggregating
the Oblast cumulative precipitation indexes in proportion of the share of each of each of the Oblasts on the average
spring wheat planted area for the period 2006-2010.



                                                       - 53 -
 Figure 2.3. Kazkahstan: Spring Wheat. National Losses in terms of Gross Value of
 Production due to Droughts (1994 – 2010)

                              North Kazakhstan : Evolution of Spring Wheat Gross Value of Production
                       600                               (GVP) and Yields                                                                                       14.0




                                                                                                                                                                       Yield (Centner/hectare)
                       500                                                                                                                                      12.0
   GVP (KZT billion)




                       400                                                                                                                                      10.0
                                                                                                                                                                8.0
                       300
                                                                                                                                                                6.0
                       200                                                                                                                                      4.0
                       100                                                                                                                                      2.0
                         0                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                               1996




                                                                                   2001
                             1994

                                        1995



                                                      1997

                                                             1998

                                                                    1999

                                                                            2000



                                                                                              2002

                                                                                                     2003

                                                                                                             2004

                                                                                                                     2005

                                                                                                                            2006

                                                                                                                                   2007

                                                                                                                                          2008

                                                                                                                                                 2009

                                                                                                                                                         2010
                                                                                    Crop Year
                             Actual GVP (KZT billion)                                                       GVP Losses (KZT billion)

                             Actual Yield (Centner/he)                                                      Expected Yield (Centner/he)/ Expected GVP (KZT billion)


Source: Authors, from ARKS
2.27. Hail is reported to be a moderate to severe problem in spring wheat in some parts of the
country. Many parts of Kazakhstan experience hail in early and mid summer associated with
major rain storms: the months of peak hail activity are May to July as shown by the data on
monthly hail incidence for selected weather stations: for example at Kostanay weather station the
return period for a hail event in the month of May is one in three years and in August, one in eight
years. (Table 2.1). Hail is a localized peril which tends to cause severe damage in wheat at the
time of crop maturity and harvest in August/early September: these months tend to have a lower
hail exposure.
Table 2.1. Kazakhstan: Monthly return period for the occurrence of hailstorms
                                                 Recurrence Period for Hailstorms for each month throughout the year (in years)
     Oblast                         I           II     III      IV       V        VI      VII     VIII     IX        X        XI                                       XII
 Kostanay                                                                  42             5           3             6          8          21        84
 Akmola                                                                                   5           8             5        13           63
 NKO                                                                                      7           5             11         5          7
 Pavlodar                                                                  21             8           9             7        30           10                    63
 SKO                                                         11            4              3           8             11       21           42        42          42
Source: KHM Hail frequency Statistics (1990-2010)
2.28. Early Autumn Frost can be a problem for spring wheat crop production in some areas
of north Kazakhstan. The occurrence of early autumn frosts during late August and the
beginning of September may cause damage to wheat crops that were sown late in the season.
Early frost damage affects wheat crops when they are in milk grain or dough phenology stages
prior to harvest. The damage occurs when the temperatures fall bellow – 2 Celsius degrees for
more than two hours. Losses due to early autumn frost on wheat production can be moderate to
severe. Historical records of monthly absolute minimum temperatures indicates that the return
periods for frost below – 2 Celsius degrees during the last week of September is once in 20 years
for some locations in Akmola, Karaganda, Kostanay, and Pavlodar. The probability of having an
early frost increases dramatically for each week beyond the last week of September.




                                                                                      - 54 -
2.29. Spring wheat is susceptible to locust attacks in northern Kazakhstan. Locust attacks
are not infrequent in north Kazakhstan and the country has suffered recurrent crop and pasture
damages from locusts. There are 2 main species of locusts in Kazakhstan (i) the ―Asian‖ locust
which is not considered a major problem and (ii) the Italian locust ( Callitamus italicus) which is
the most common and dangerous pest in nearly all of Kazakhstan: in 1999 the country
experienced a severe outbreak of Italian locusts and as this species has a peak cycle of every 10 to
12 years the next outbreak is expected in 2010 or 201120. The scale of the problem increased
dramatically after independence (during1996–2001), when cessation of state subsidies for wheat
production in the northern steppe lands led to the abandonment of up to one third of the former
wheat lands. The resulting mosaic of weedy fields, pastures, and bare ground provides ideal
breeding grounds for locusts. In 1999, more than seven million hectares of land were invaded by
Italian locusts and 220,000 hectares of crops were destroyed caused a total damage equivalent to
US$ 15 million. In 2008, again more than 200,000 hectares of crops were destroyed in SKO21.
The Government was forced to conduct a massive chemical control campaign throughout the
country with assistance from Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).

2.30. Spring wheat fungal leaf diseases are also a problem for spring wheat production in
Kazakhstan. Despite the dry climate, cultivation of susceptible varieties results in epidemics of
leaf rust on average in 1 year out of 4, affecting over a million hectares with yield losses of up to
25–30%. Excess moisture and high humidity during the month of July generates the conditions
for the development of rust. Most of the wheat cultivars planted in the region are susceptible to
leaf rust and only recently have several resistant lines and new varieties have been tested in
trials22. Stripe rust, caused by Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici is considered the most important
disease of wheat in Central Asia and the Caucasus (CAC). Although stripe rust has been present
in the region for a long time, it has become a serious constraint to wheat production in the past 10
years. Rust attacks were observed in northern areas of Kazakhstan in 2007 and in 2009.



Assessment of crop production risk exposures
Spring Wheat Values at Risk

2.31. The total Spring Wheat values at risk (VAR) in north Kazakhstan region is valued at
KZT 452 billion (about US$ 3.0 billion)23. The bulk of spring wheat production in Kazakhstan is
concentrated in a relatively small area. Out of the KZT 452 billion of total spring wheat values at
risk (VAR), 87 percent (KZT 392 billion) is concentrated in a relatively small area of
approximately 240,000 square kilometers which comprises NKO, the northern rayons of
Kostanay Oblast, and northern and western rayons of Akmola Oblast. The remaining 13 percent
of the spring wheat VAR, or KZT 56 billion, is distributed throughout a vast area that comprises

20
   IRIN Asia 2007. Kazakhstan: Locust invasion in west under control officials say. Almaty 10 July 2007.
http://www.irinnews.org/report?reoportid=73115
21
   Locust in Kazakhstan. Presentation made A. Latchininsky & R. Sivanpillai. University of Wyoming
22
   Leaf rust of spring wheat in Northern Kazakhstan and Siberia: incidence, virulence, and breeding for
resistance* A. Morgounov A D, L. Rosseeva B and M. Koyshibayev CAustralian Journal of Agricultural
Research 58(9) 847–853 http://dx.doi.org/10.1071/AR07086 Submitted: 8 March 2007 Accepted: 8 June
2007 Published: 28 September 2007
23
   For the purpose of valuate spring wheat production an average price of KZT 3,210 per center was
considered. This price is the result of the average spring wheat farm gate price for the month of harvest
(September) for most recent three crop seasons (2008, 2009, and 2010)


                                                  - 55 -
EKO, Pavlodar, Karaganda, Aktobe, WKO, rayons located in the south of Kostanay Oblast, and
rayons located in the east of Akmola Oblast. Map 2.7 summarizes the geographical distribution
of spring wheat VARs at rayon level throughout the 8 selected Oblasts in north Kazakhstan
region. Further details of this analysis are provided in Annex 1.

2.32. The fact that 87 percent of spring wheat exposure is concentrated in a relatively small
geographic area of northern Kazakhstan has severe implications for crop insurers in terms of
the chance of face catastrophic losses on spring wheat crop production. This fact indicates a
huge risk accumulation in the area comprised by NKO, the northern rayons of Kostanay Oblast,
and northern and western rayons of Akmola Oblast and an increase of the chance of having a
systemic event affecting the main part of the spring wheat crop portfolio.

2.33. The major spatial differences in spring wheat VARs will need to be addressed carefully
in the re-design and strengthening of the Obligatory crop scheme for spring wheat production.
The principle of any crop insurance scheme is to ensure that an optimal spread of risk is achieved
both spatially and temporally. The concentration of VARs in NKO, the northern rayons of
Kostanay Oblast, and northern and western rayons of Akmola Oblast will need to be assessed
closely under the redesign and strengthening of the existing obligatory crop insurance scheme and
possible introduction of new crop insurance products and programs.

    Map 2.7. North Kazakhstan: Spring Wheat Exposures in North Kazakhstan Region




                             Source: Authors from Agency of Statistics.

Expected Value of Spring Wheat Crop Losses

2.34. An estimation of the expected value of crop losses for the spring wheat crops at rayon
level for each of the 9 selected Oblasts in north Kazakhstan region has been conducted. The
estimation of the expected value of crop losses for spring wheat crops was based on an analysis of
variance in time-series average seasonal rice yields in each zone under the CRAM model (See
Annex 1 for full details of the model‘s assumptions).

2.35. The analysis of expected losses shows that spring wheat production in Kazakhstan is
extremely risky with annual average expected losses valued at KZT 66.5 billion (about US$ 443


                                              - 56 -
million). The annual average expected losses for spring wheat is valued at KZT 66.5 billion per
crop year (US$ 443 million), equivalent to 14.7 percent of the total spring wheat VAR of KZT
452 billion. However, within north Kazakhstan region there are some Oblasts and Rayons which
are more risky than others. Map 2.8 shows the average expected losses for spring wheat crop
production expressed as a percentage of the VAR in each of the rayons in northern Kazakhstan.
2.36. The highest average annual expected losses in spring wheat applies to Aktobe Oblast
and WKO located in western Kazakhstan. Within these 2 Oblasts there are only 2 rayons in
western WKO and two rayons in northern Aktobe which have annual average expected losses of
less than 25%. In all other rayons the average annual expected losses for spring wheat are
extremely high at between 25 percent to over 38 percent of the total values at risk. These annual
average expected losses are equivalent to a total loss of spring wheat production one in every
three to four years. This indicates that the western zone of Kazakhstan is very marginal for spring
wheat crop production.

2.37. Conversely, spring wheat production is much less risky in the northern Oblasts of
NKO, Kostanay and Akmole. In rayons such as those situated in NKO, north eastern and
southern areas of Akmola Oblast and the northern area of Kostanay Oblast, the annual average
expected loss for spring wheat ranges between 10 percent to 15 percent of the total values at risk.
Pavlodar Rayon and the western areas of EKO can be considered as intermediate in terms of risks
for spring wheat production. In these rayons the average expected losses that ranges between 18
percent to 27 percent. Last, there is a vast geographic area comprising center and south of
Kostanay Oblast, center and east of Akmola Oblast, most of Karaganda Oblast and the eastern
rayons of EKO that has acceptable levels of expected losses. In these areas the average expected
loss per hectare averages from 15 percent to 18 percent of the total values at risk.

   Map 2.8. North Kazakhstan: Expected losses for Spring Wheat (% total values at risk)




                                   Source: Authors from CRAM.
2.38. The analysis of expected losses also shows that spring wheat produced by commercial
farmers is much more risky that the spring wheat produced by production enterprises. Annual
expected losses for spring wheat produced by PEs are 22 percent lower, on average for the whole
north Kazakhstan region, than the annual expected losses for spring wheat produced by CFs.
While the annual average expected losses for spring wheat produced by CFs is 17.24 percent of


                                              - 57 -
the total spring wheat VAR produced by CFs, the average expected losses for spring wheat
produced by PEs is only 13.39 percent. It is understood that the main reason for these
differences in terms of spring wheat expected losses between PES and CFs is because the PEs are
able to manage their production risks better (they have more working capital and better
machinery) and are applying soil moisture conservation technologies to the crops (e.g. zero
tillage). The fact that the expected losses of spring wheat crops grown by PEs is lower than the
expected losses for CFs is an important finding that should be taken into consideration in the
design of any individual grower loss of yield crop insurance scheme. The eventual modification
of the obligatory crop insurance scheme should recognize the risk management efforts
implemented by the different types of insured.

2.39. The analysis of 17-year (1994 -2010) rayon-level yields for spring wheat in NKO shows
that 1998 was the worst loss year in this series with total production losses of 7.7 million metric
tons of spring wheat, which was equivalent to a financial loss of 41.6 percent of the total
expected value of spring crops in northern Kazakhstan. Although 1998 was a severe loss year
for spring wheat production in northern Kazakhstan, even worse crop losses could occur in future.
From an insurance view point, underwriters need to know with a high degree of confidence the
maximum losses that they might incur (termed the Probable Maximum Loss, PML 24) either 1 in
100 years, or if it is necessary to be even more conservative, 1 in 250 years. This information is
an invaluable aid to structuring an insurance and reinsurance program and to determining how
much capital must be reserved to cover the PML loss year.
2.40. The results of the World Bank’s PML loss cost analysis at 100% yield coverage level
show that the 1 in 10 year expected PML is equivalent to a loss of 34.0 percent of the total
value at risk (VAR) of the north Kazakhstan region spring crop or a loss of KZT 153.6 billion
(US$ 1.02 billion) , while the 1 in a hundred year PML loss is calculated at 54.61 percent of the
total VAR for spring crop in north Kazakhstan region or a loss of KZT 246.8 billion (US$ 1.6
billion). These PML estimates show that the spring wheat crop in north Kazakhstan region is
very exposed to catastrophic (mainly drought) losses and that these losses greatly exceed the
retention capability of local insurance companies. The preliminary PML presented in this report
will need to be developed in future and used to (a) establish the catastrophe loading which must
prudently be added to the calculated base rates and (b) assist in the design of a risk financing and
risk retention and risk transfer/reinsurance strategy for the Kazakh insurance market.




24
  The Probable maximum Loss is defined as ―An estimate of the maximum l oss that is likely to arise on the
occurrence of a single event considered to be within the realms of probability, remote coincidences and
possible but unlikely catastrophes being ignored‖.


                                                 - 58 -
Figure 2.3. North Kazakhstan: Probable Maximum Losses for the Spring Wheat Portfolio.
                                      70%
  Percentage of Loss over the total
                                      60%                                                                                   61% - 277 billion
                                                                                                             60% - KZT 271 billion
                                                                                          57% - KZT 263 billion
                                      50%                             54% - KZT 247 billion
                                                      50% - KZT 225 billion
                                      40%
                VAR




                                                34% - KZT 154 billion
                                      30%

                                      20%

                                      10%

                                      0%
                                            0              50              100            150                     200               250
                                                                          Return Period (years)
Source: Authors from CRAM.
2.41. The PML loss cost analysis at 100% yield coverage level show that Commercial
Farmers are more exposed to catastrophic losses in north Kazakhstan than the Production
Enterprises. While the 1 in 10 year expected PML for CFs is equivalent to a loss of 38.0 percent
of the total value at risk (VAR) of these types of farmers in the north Kazakhstan region, the 1 in
10 year expected PML for PEs shown by the same analysis is 33.7 percent of the VAR for the
PEs. The 1 in 100 year expected PML for CFs is equivalent to a loss of 58.0 percent of the CFs‘
VAR in the north Kazakhstan region and the 1 in 100 year expected PML for PEs is 55.7 percent
of the PEs‘ VAR.

Conclusions to Spring Wheat Risk Assessment

2.42. The analysis of rayon level crop production and yields for spring wheat in north
Kazakhstan region shows that this crop is heavily exposed to losses caused by droughts. This is
evidenced by the average loss cost estimated by the CRAM for a 17-year period, 1994 up to 2010
of 14.71 percent of the total value at risk of spring wheat production and a calculated 1 in 100
year PML of 54 percent of the national spring wheat gross value of production.

2.43. The design of any crop insurance program for spring wheat in north Kazakhstan
region should take into account the differences in expected yields and yield variability by
rayon. The analysis of spring wheat expected yields and expected yield variability for the
different rayons in north Kazakhstan region, show different levels of risk and, therefore, different
rates across the different rayons in the region.

2.44. The design of any crop insurance program for spring wheat in north Kazakhstan
region should also take into account the differences in terms of expected yields and risk
between the Production Enterprises and the Commercial Farmers. In Kazakhstan there are
important differences in technology levels used by different types of farmers to grow spring
wheat and even when they are situated in the same region, they obtain different yields and/or their
crops perform differently under similar crop-stress (e.g. drought) situations. In the case of spring
wheat production in north Kazakhstan, PEs perform better than CFs, both in terms of yield
performance and stability of such performance. These facts that differentiate the spring wheat
production of PEs and CFs should be taken into consideration in the designing of future crop
insurance products and schemes in Kazakhstan.



                                                                                  - 59 -
   Chapter 3: Review of Kazakhstan Crop Insurance Program


3.1.    This Chapter presents a review of the Compulsory Crop Insurance Program including its
key features, results and financial performance and highlights the issues and drawbacks of the
current program and then in Chapter 4, options for strengthening the program are considered.

Policy and Regulatory Framework for Crop Insurance
3.2.    Kazakhstan has a history of State-supported compulsory agricultural insurance.
During the Soviet period a national compulsory crop insurance scheme operated from 1970 to
1991 and all state farms and collective farms participated in this scheme which was based on a
multiple-peril crop insurance cover which provided limited indemnity for loss of production costs
invested in growing the crop. Following independence in 1991 there was no crop insurance in
Kazakhstan for the next decade.

3.3.     The current crop insurance system in Kazakhstan is a Public-Private Partnership
(PPP) that was created by Law in 2004. The Law № 533-II of March 10th, 2004 established the
legal and regulatory framework and financial and organizational basis for the implementation of a
national crop insurance program in Kazakhstan. (A copy of the Law is attached in Annex 2).
The law sets out the terms and conditions for the implementation of a compulsory salvage-based
Loss of Investment Costs (LIC) crop insurance program for farmers growing a range of strategic
cereal, oilseed and other field crops, in Kazakhstan. The implementing agencies of the current
crop insurance system in Kazakhstan are the Direction of Strategic Planning of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA)), the Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture (FFSA), the private and
mutual insurance companies and finally the local authorities in each Oblast and Rayon.

3.4.     The crop insurance law in Kazakhstan is aimed at meeting three objectives . The first
objective is to protect the famers‘ against loss of their crop production due to the effects of
adverse weather events. Kazakhstan is one of the most exposed countries in the world to drought
losses in spring wheat, followed by late spring and harvest frosts, hail and to a lesser extent
excess rain and flood and also to crop pests and diseases. GRK seeks to protect small and
medium farmers from going bankrupt following major crop losses by providing subsidized crop
insurance for the main crops grown in Kazakhstan. The second objective is to assist farmers to
gain access to rural finance by protecting their crop loans against default due to weather induced
crop failure. The third objective is to assist in enhancing the effectiveness of government support
programs for crop production.

3.5.     The current crop insurance system in Kazakhstan is compulsory by law. The law states
that all the farmers in Kazakhstan who produce a series of strategic crops including cereals,
oilseeds, sugar beet and cotton are obliged to purchase crop insurance; otherwise, farmers cannot
obtain access to other government subsidized programs supporting agriculture and are subject to
the application of financial penalties by the GRK. Under the compulsory crop insurance program
all private commercial insurance companies and mutual farmers‘ associations licensed to operate
crop insurance are equally obliged to offer crop insurance and to insure all the insurance
proposals received from the farmers regardless of the quality of the risk. The only reason that an
Insurer may refuse to conclude a compulsory contract of insurance cover is if the Insured farmer
has failed to submit his or her application and to complete the insurance contract including the
payment of premium by the agreed policy inception cut-off date.



                                              - 60 -
3.6.    The Law of Compulsory Crop Insurance is very comprehensive and specifies the terms
and conditions of the standard crop insurance policy which is offered throughout Kazakhstan.
The Law of 2004 prescribes the terms and conditions of the standard Loss of Investment Costs
(LIC) crop insurance policy that all insurance companies are obliged to adhere to, including the
insured crops and insured perils, the amount of the sum insured for each crop grown in each
Oblast and Rayon and which is based on 3 optional levels of crop production investment costs,
through to specification of the minimum and maximum premium rates that can be charged for
each crop in each Oblast of the country. The Law also states the basis of indemnity and loss
assessment procedures that apply on the standard LIC Policy.

3.7.    The Law also specifies the GRK’s Financial Support to the Compulsory Crop
Insurance Program. In addition to its statutory and regulatory roles in setting the terms and
conditions of the compulsory crop insurance programs, GRK also provides financial support to
the program in the form of a 50 percent reimbursement of paid claims to the private and mutual
insurance companies each year. The settlement of the 50% claims is administered through an
Agent appointed by GRK, in this case, the Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture (FFSA).
Under the law, GRK is also responsible for funding the FFSA‘s operating costs.



Compulsory Crop Insurance Policy Terms and Conditions
3.8.    The Kazakhstan compulsory crop insurance policy is a Loss of Yield Policy which
indemnifies the Insured when the value of the harvested production falls short of the costs
invested in growing the crop due to the action of insured perils. The policy is sometimes
referred to as a Salvage-based loss of yield because it only indemnifies crop production losses at
the point when the sale value (revenue) of any residual harvestable crop production (termed the
―salvage‖) is inadequate to cover the costs of production invested in growing the crop up to the
time of loss. Alternatively this policy is called a Loss of Investment Costs Crop Insurance policy
(―Loss of Investment Cost‖ policy for short).

3.9.     A key potential advantage of the Loss of Investment Cost (LIC) Policy is that it can be
used in situations where there are no accurate historical individual farmer-level crop
production and yield records. A conventional individual grower Loss of Yield Policy requires
each grower to provide between 5 and 10 years of their actual crop production and yields in order
to establish an average or normal yield and to then establish an Insured Yield against which to
measure yield reduction or loss due to the action of insured perils. In Kazakhstan it is understood
that few farmers can provide an accurate crop yield history. The Loss of Investment Cost (LIC)
Policy can, however, be offered to individual growers in situations where yield history data is not
available as the basis of indemnity does not depend on measuring yield loss against a pre-
established Insured Yield. The LIC policy establishes a sum insured based on the production
costs invested in growing the crop and in the event of a loss due to an insured peril(s) the policy
makes an indemnity payment where the estimated sale value of the salvage is inadequate to cover
the costs invested in the crop at the time of loss.

3.10. The main drawback of the LIC policy is that in the event of partial crop area or
production losses, the actual remaining or salvageable crop yield has to be measured on a field by
field basis and the value of the salvage estimated – this is a time consuming and costly loss
adjusting exercise




                                              - 61 -
3.11. The Loss of Investment Cost (LIC) policy has been extensively promoted for more than
30 years in Mexico where it is usually linked to bank lending in the form of seasonal crop loans,
in other parts of Central and South America and also in several Eastern European countries.

3.12. This Section presents a review of the key features of the Kazakhstan Compulsory Loss
of Investment Costs (LIC) Policy. A summary of the main terms and conditions of the LIC
policy wording which is termed the Standard Form of Compulsory Crop Insurance Contract) is
contained in Box 3.1 and full details are presented in the Policy Wording in Annex 2.

Box 3.1. Summary of Terms and Conditions of Cover of Kazakhstan Standard Compulsory
Loss of Investment Costs Crop Insurance Policy
Item                           Detail
Type of Cover                  Loss of Investment Cost Policy. The underlying basis of insurance and
                               indemnity is a salvage-based loss of crop yield policy
Insured Interest – Crops       Spring and Winter Wheat, Spring and Winter Barley, Winter Rye,
                               Buckwheat, Oats, Millet, Maize (grain), Chick-pea, Pea, Brassica, Rice,
                               Sunflower, Safflower, Soyabean, Sugar Beet, Cotton
Location                       Republic of Kazakhstan: All crop growing regions
Criteria for Acceptance of     Crop Insurance is compulsory for all producers of the above insurable crops
Risk / Compulsion of Cover     throughout Kazakhstan.
Insured Perils                 Cover is provided against loss or damage to crop production due to ―adverse
                               weather events‖, defined as:
                                Natural Phenomena Long-lasting: Drought, Frost-killing, Lack of
                                  Warmth (Low Temperature), Excess Moisture in the soil, Excess
                                  Moisture in Air (Excess Humidity), Flood, Shallow Dry Wind and
                                Natural Phenomena Short-lasting: Hail, Excess Rain, Frost, Strong
                                  Wind, Mudflow.
Cover Period                   From the time of Sowing of the Insured crop through to completion of
                               harvest.
Insured Unit                   For each farmer, the Insured Unit is defined as a ―field‖. The Insured is
                               obliged to declare and insure each and every separate field of the Insurable
                               Crop(s) and to submit a map of the field locations.
Sum Insured                    The Sum Insured is based on the Normative Costs of Production for 1 hectare
                               of the Insured Crop, multiplied by the Insured Area.
                               The Insured is permitted to selected from 3 optional levels of Normative
                               Costs of Production:
                                     Science-based agricultural technology
                                     Simplified agricultural technology
                                     Costs of: fuel & lubricants, seeds, wages
Deductible (Franchise)         The Compulsory Insurance Law prohibits the use of franchises or
                               deductibles.
Basis of Indemnity and         Where the action of Insured Perils causes the Actual Value of Harvested
Claims Settlement              Production (Salvage) to fall short of the Costs of Production Invested in
                               growing the crop (the Sum Insured), the policy will indemnify the amount of
                               shortfall.
                               In the event of a Total Loss, the indemnity is the Sum Insured for the 100%
                               damaged area.
                               In the case of a Partial Loss of area and or yield, the salvage (harvestable
                               production) from the affected area is estimated in field at the time of harvest
                               and valued at the prevailing sale price of the crop. Where the Value of
                               Salvage (Crop Revenue) falls short of the Investment Costs the shortfall is


                                               - 62 -
                                 indemnified.
Exclusions                       Any losses which occur due to causes other than ―adverse weather events‖
Other Conditions                 Cover is only binding from the time of payment of premium by the Insured
Source: Authors based on Standard Form of Compulsory Crop Insurance Contract (See Annex 2)

Compulsion of Cover

3.13. Kazakhstan is one of very few countries in the World where crop insurance cover is
compulsory for all farmers who grow cereals, oilseeds and other strategic crops. As noted
above, in Kazakhstan, crop insurance cover is legally enforceable under the Law № 533-II of
2004 and where a farmer deliberately avoids purchasing crop insurance this is penalized by heavy
fines which are again enacted by Law. Kazakhstan is one of a handful of countries where
governments have made crop insurance compulsory. Currently there are about 100 countries
offering some form of public, or private or PPP agricultural insurance and countries where
agricultural insurance is compulsory include China (compulsory cover only applies to swine
epidemic disease cover), Cyprus (compulsory government crop insurance for all crops), Japan
(crop insurance is compulsory for wheat and rice only), Kazakhstan (crop insurance is
compulsory for major strategic crops, but is voluntary for livestock) North Korea (compulsory
national rice and maize insurance program), Netherlands (compulsory livestock epidemic diseases
insurance), Switzerland (compulsory livestock epidemic disease cover) and the Windward Islands
(compulsory windstorm cover for export bananas) (Mahul & Stutley 2010). In all other countries
agricultural insurance is either purely voluntary or in some cases borrowers of credit are obliged
by the lender to purchase crop-credit insurance protection. The potential advantages and
disadvantages of compulsory national crop insurance schemes are reviewed later in this Chapter.

Insured Crops

3.14. Under the 2004 Compulsory Crop Insurance Law insurance is mandatory for a list of
17 strategically important food and export crops including spring wheat and other grains,
oilseeds, sugar beet and cotton. A full list of the compulsory insurable crops is given in Box 3.1.
Spring wheat is the most important crop accounting for over 90% of the program‘s Total Sum
Insured (TSI) over the past 6 years (2005 to 2010).

Insured Perils

3.15. The Compulsory LIC Policy insures a wide range of adverse climatic perils . The
insured perils include a broad range of climatic perils including drought, winter freeze, frost, low
temperature, hail, excess rain, flood, water-logging (excess soil moisture), excess humidity, wind
(hot dry winds and strong winds) and one natural peril, mud-flow which may or may not be
associated with excess rain.

3.16. The Compulsory LIC Policy excludes all other causes of crop loss including the
natural peril of fire and all biological perils (pests and diseases). It is understood that plant
pests and especially fungal diseases in cereals are a major cause of loss in adverse climatic years
in the RK. In most other countries which operate similar LIC policies, coverage is usually ―All
Risk‖ and includes all natural, climatic and biological perils (unavoidable and uncontrollable
pests and diseases) which result in loss of expected crop production and crop revenue. In
Kazakhstan it is likely that loss assessment is more complicated because the adjustment would
need to take into account losses due to insured adverse climatic events and to separate these from
other uninsured causes of loss. This is a theme which is discussed further in the Chapter 4.



                                                - 63 -
Definition of Insured Unit

3.17. The definition of the Insured Unit is critical for adjusting and indemnifying losses
under any crop insurance scheme. In Kazakhstan the Insured Unit is the separate or individual
―Field‖. The policy requires farmers to declare and insure all their fields sown with the insurable
crop(s) and to provide maps and schedules showing the location and area of each field and
crop(s). With the lack of field boundary fences and or roads, the definition of what constitutes a
separate field may, however, be very open to interpretation at the time of loss assessment.

Cover Period

3.18. The principle of most crop insurance programs is to provide protection to the crop
during the growing season and to terminate cover on completion of the harvest. There are,
however, a great many variants on the inception dates of cover and some multiple-peril crop
insurance (MPCI) loss of yield programs will only incept cover once the sown crop has
germinated and is emerged and a full stand has been established (e.g. Spain and Portugal), while
other programs will insure against loss of the sown seeds due to perils which cause germination
failure. The LIC program in Mexico is an example of a program which insures crops from the
time of sowing against natural and climatic events and biological perils which lead to germination
failure. In a few cases, including the USA‘s Federal Crop Insurance Program, FCIP, coverage
may even extend to ―prevented sowing‖, for example, due to extreme drought or excess rain
preventing access to machinery to sow the crop.

3.19. The Cover period of the Compulsory LIC Policy is not clearly defined. Article 9 of the
LIC policy wording states that the contract is deemed valid and binding for all Parties from the
moment of payment of the Insurance Premium and is in force until an agreed termination date.
The Law on Compulsory Crop Insurance, stipulates that the contract of insurance must be
concluded and in place no later than 15 days after completion of sowing: it is, however, very
unclear whether the intention of the policy is to provide back-dated coverage from the time of
sowing of the crop, and also whether losses that occur within the 15 day period would be deemed
insured or not (ARKA 2011). Under a voluntary crop insurance program it would be
unacceptable to permit farmers to purchase cover up to 15 days after completion of sowing
because of the potential for anti-selection and normally such polices carry a sales cut-off date of
at least 30 days prior to the start of sowing25. In Kazakhstan it might be argued that anti-selection
is minimized because the program is compulsory for all farmers: however, the practice of
allowing farmers to purchase cover up to 15 days after completion of sowing may lead to moral
hazard – for example where crop germination is poor the famer may reduce his husbandry and
management standards thereby accentuating the loss of crop production in the knowledge the
policy will pay out a claim.

Premium Rates

3.20. Government is responsible for setting the reference premium rates on the Compulsory
Crop Insurance Scheme and these rates are declared in the Law of 2004 and subsequent
amendments. In 2003 GRK through the MOA commissioned a crop insurance premium rating
study for the LIC crop insurance policy through the Kazakh Actuarial Center (CJSC). CJSC used
11 year (1991-2001) MOA crop-area damage data at Oblast level to design a system of regional

25
   Examples where anti-selection could arise under a voluntary program include where pre-existing adverse
climatic conditions are developing at the time of sowing (e.g. a major freeze or drought) and farmers
purchase cover knowing there is a high probability of crop failure.


                                                 - 64 -
or Oblast-level technical premium rates for the major insured crops (grains, oilseeds, sugar beet
and cotton). For each major crop type in each Oblast, the average loss cost rates were calculated
according to the percentage of total sown area damaged and with adjustment by spreading
catastrophe loss years in particular Oblasts (e.g. WKO) over the whole portfolio. The technical
rates were then reduced by 50% on account of the government 50% claims subsidies and finally
loaded for Insurers administration and operating expenses and profit margins by load factors of
between 10% and 25% 26. Further details of the CJSC crop rating methodology are presented in
Annex 2. The final commercial premium rates were published in the 2004 Compulsory Crop
Insurance Law and were last updated in 2008 when a system of minimum and maximum
reference rates was introduced for grain crops, since when they have remained unchanged.

3.21. For each crop and group of Oblasts, the GRK premium rates are presented in terms of
a minimum and a maximum premium rate that may be charged by the Insurance Companies. A
list of the current reference premium rates that apply in 2011 are contained in Table 3.1. In the
higher rainfall growing areas of northern and eastern Kazakhstan the premium rates for grains are
between 1.78% and 3.48%, rising to between 5.21% and 9.15% in the most drought prone areas
of Western Kazakhstan including the Oblasts of Aktobe and WKO. For all other classes of crops
including oil seeds, sugar beets and cotton the minimum and maximum reference rates are the
same for all Oblasts or in other words there is no regional differentiation of the premium rates.

3.22. Since the GRK reimburses the insurers for 50 percent of the claims free of cost, the
MOA determined technical premium rates are correspondingly adjusted downwards to reflect
only 50% of the expected claims costs. These reduced technical rates are then loaded for
acquisition costs and insurers‘ operating expenses and reasonable profit margins to derive the
MOA approved minimum and maximum commercial premium rates or reference rates (Table
3.1). As such, farmers receive an implicit premium subsidy of 50 percent of the amount of
premiums they have to pay.

Table 3.1. Crop Insurance Commercial Premium Reference Rates set by Law
                                                                               Premium Rate (%)
 Crop Group         Name of Oblast
                                                                               Minimum Maximum
                    Аkmola, Аlmaty, EKO,Zhambyl, Kostanay, NKO                 1.78      3.48
 1) GRAINS          Кaragandy, Kyzylorda, Pavlodar, SKO                        3.17      5.83
 (CEREALS)
                    Аktobe, WKO                                                5.21      9.15
 2) OILSEEDS        National (applicable in all Oblasts where crop is grown)   2.01      3.44
 3) SUGAR BEET      National (applicable in all Oblasts where crop is grown)   5.76      8.39
 4) COTTON          National (applicable in all Oblasts where crop is grown)          0.92
Source: Compulsory Crop Insurance Law 2004

Sum Insured

3.23. In Kazakhstan the Sum Insured of the compulsory LIC policy is determined by a
“Normative Cost of Production” per hectare, which is established by MoA per crop and Oblast

26
  Full details of the CJSC‘s 2003 crop insurance premium rating methodology are set out in : CJSC (2003)
Tariff Calculation Methodology for Comulsory Crop Insurance in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Report
prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakh Actuarial Center, CJSC,
November 18, 2003


                                                    - 65 -
and agro-ecological zone in the country. The Normative Costs of Production are approved by
GRK and are then published by Law.

3.24. In each Oblast Farmers are permitted to chose between 3 optional levels of Sum
Insured for each insured crop according to technology levels. The three optional sum insured
levels correspond to high technology/high production costs cultivation (Science-based Agro-
technology), medium technology (Simplified Agro-technology) and low technology (based on
three production input cost items, wages, fuel and seeds). Farmers are free to elect to insure their
crop at any technology level irrespective of their actual technology levels and production cost
structures. Table 3.2 presents a summary of the three levels of average normative costs or sums
insured in KZT per hectare for each crop type which applied in 2009 and 2010.

3.25. The per hectare sums insured are in general very low reflecting both the low average
technology levels adopted by Kazakhstan’s farmers and therefore the low costs of production
for most crops and also government’s desire to manage the financial exposure on this
compulsory national crop insurance program by capping the maximum permitted sums
insured. Reference to Table 3.2 shows that in 2010 for the highest Science-based
Agrotechnology level, the average sum insured for all crops was only KZT 9,908/Ha (US$
68/Ha)27 with range from a low for millet of KZT 4,830/Ha (US$ 33/Ha) to a high for sugar beet
of KZT 40,646/Ha (about US$ 280/Ha). For the lowest sum insured option based on the three
production cost items of wages, fuel and seeds, the average sum insured for all crops was a very
low TZK 3,674/Ha (US$ 25/Ha) in 2010. For spring wheat which is the most important insured
crop grown in Kazakhstan, 2010 average sums insured ranged from a maximum of KZT 8,829/Ha
(US$ 61/Ha) down to KZT 3,407/Ha (US$ 23/Ha) for the lowest sum insured option (Details of
2010 wheat Normative Costs by Oblast and agro-ecological risk zone are included in Annex 2).
Table 3.2. 2009-2010 Average Normative Costs of Production by Crop Type (KZT/Hectare)
              Crop                Science-based          Simplified Agro-      Costs based on salary, fuels
                                 Agro-technology           Technology            & lubricants and seeds
 Brassica napus                           8,409                   6,230                      2,353
 Buckwheat                                8,482                   5,848                      3,180
 Chick pea                                7,990                   6,101                      3,699
 Cotton                                  24,060                  14,211                      9,706
 Grain maize                             25,804                  16,836                      8,640
 Millet                                   4,830                   3,392                      1,731
 Oat                                      6,904                   4,682                      2,987
 Pea                                      8,064                   5,780                      3,935
 Rice                                    33,524                  21,459                      5,130
 Safflower                                8,323                   6,407                      3,311
 Soya                                    10,624                   6,822                      4,803
 Spring Barley                            7,676                   5,111                      3,104
 Spring Rye                               6,518                   3,874                      2,449
 Spring Wheat                             8,829                   5,831                      3,407
 Sugar Beet                              40,646                  23,469                      7,583
 Sunflower                                9,026                   5,661                      3,824
 Winter Wheat                             9,361                   6,143                      3,699
 Average all crops                        9,909                   6,540                      3,674
 Average all crops (US$)                   68                      45                          25
Source: Authors‘ calculation of average normative costs per crop based on Regulation 25 March 2009 No 410.

3.26. The Normative Costs per Hectare are multiplied by the number of insured hectares in
each field to derive the Total Sum Insured (TSI) for each crop in each Insured Unit.

27
     A 2010 exchange rate of KZT 145 = US$ 1.00 has been used in this analysis.


                                                      - 66 -
Basis of Indemnity

3.27. The policy indemnifies the farmer when the expected revenue (actual remaining crop
production times the prevailing farm-gate sale price) from the insured crop in the insured unit
(which in Kazakhstan is defined as the individual “field”) falls short of the sum insured
(investment cost) insured by the farmer. In such cases, the insurance policy indemnifies the
famer by the difference between the sum insured (investment cost) per hectare less the expected
revenue per hectare times the area of the insured unit.

3.28. Damage is assessed by in-field sampling by a committee of up to 5 persons
(organizations). The field loss assessment exercise is designed to assess i) the cause of loss to
verify whether this is due to an insured (uninsured) peril(s), ii) the affected / damaged area of the
crop in each Insured Unit and iii) whether damage to the crop is a Partial or Total loss. The
procedures for indemnifying total and partial losses are explained below. .

3.29. Where a total crop loss occurs, the loss assessment and indemnity procedures are
relatively simple. In the case of total crop loss the main task at the time of in-field crop loss
assessment is to measure the area (in hectares) of totally (100%) damaged crop due to insured
perils. The damaged area is then multiplied by the per hectare normative costs of production
(sum insured) selected by the Insured to derive the total value of the claim. No deductible is
applied to the claim. The LIC Policy Wording is, however, ambiguous as to whether the total
loss must apply over the entire area of the declared Insured Unit (field) in order to qualify for a
claim, or whether a total loss in any hectare of the insured crop will open the policy for a claim.
This lack of clarity over the definition of the Insured Unit may lead to misunderstandings between
the Insurer and the Insured at the time of loss assessment. Also the policy does not clearly state
what constitutes a total loss and does not appear to carry a Constructive Total Loss Clause.28

3.30. In the case of partial losses due to insured perils the loss assessment procedure and
basis of indemnity is considerably more complicated. In the case of partial losses to crop
production and yields, in-field assessment is required using 1 metre square crop-cut samples
located at random in the field to estimate the actual remaining harvestable yield (salvage) in the
affected area. Loss assessment is a costly and time consuming process and the Law stipulates that
a Committee of five persons (including the local Rayon executive authority, the FFSA
representative, Insurance Agent, Insurance Company and the Insured farmer) must inspect the
effected field(s), and determine the damaged area and within this area the amount of harvestable
yield (salvage). The value of salvage must then be calculated by one of 2 ways: (i) according to
the actual sale value of the crop received by the farmer; or (ii) prior to sale of the crop by using an
estimate of the local sales price for the crop. If the value of salvage is lower than the sum insured
(investment costs), the difference is indemnified. A worked example is given in Box 3.2. There
is, however, a major drawback of this procedure namely that because an insured price for valuing
the salvage is not pre-agreed at the time of binding the insurance contract, neither the Insurer nor
the Insured have any clear idea of the amount of indemnity they may receive in the event of
partial crop losses (this issue is discussed further in the next section).

28
   Under the Mexican LIC Policy there is a Total Constructive Loss Clause (CTL) under which a Total Loss
is defined as ―where more than 90% of the sown crop stand and expected production has been lost and
where it is not economic to harvest (salvage) the remaining proportion of the crop because the harvest costs
would exceed the sale value of the salvage‖. It is not clear whether a CTL definition applies under the
Kazakhstan Compulsory LIC Policy


                                                  - 67 -
Box 3.2. Example of Indemnity Calculations for Partial Crop Losses
SUM INSURED DETAILS:
Insured Crop: Sunflower
Insured Field Number: 53
Area of Insured Field (hectares): 300
Sum Insured per hectare (KZT per hectare): 3,390
Total Sum Insured field No 53 (KZT): 1,017,000
Cause of Loss: Drought

PARTIAL LOSS: CLAIMS CALCULATION:
Affected area: 300 Ha, partial losses
Harvestable Yield (salvage) (MTons): 5.5472
Sale price for sunflower (KZT/MTon): 55,000
Value of Salvage (KZT): 305,100
Value of Salvage per hectare (KZT/Ha): 1,107 (305,100 ÷ 300)
Difference between Sum Insured and Salvage Value (KZT/Ha) -2,373 (1,107 – 3,390)
Insurance Payment (KZT): 711,900 (300 Ha x KZT 2,373/Ha)
Source: FFSA 2011




Government Financial Support to Crop Insurance in Kazakhstan
3.31. GRK provides financial support to the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme in two
ways by i) compensating the Insurers for 50% of all the claims incurred and ii) funding of the
administration and operating expenses of the Fund for Financial Support for Agriculture,
FFSA. The current crop insurance system is financially supported by GRK. Government
supports the crop insurance scheme by reimbursing 50 percent of the crop insurance claims paid
by the insurance companies and mutual societies without requiring the insurance companies to
pay pro rata premiums for this cover. This GRK cover is similar to a free quota-share (50%-50%)
reinsurance agreement.

3.32. The 50% claims compensation fund is administered by the FFSA which is responsible
for monitoring and managing the financial transactions on this insurance scheme on behalf of
government and for approving the claims reimbursements to individual insurance companies .
The FFSA performs a very important function on the compulsory crop insurance scheme by
maintaining a data-base on each and every insured farmer since scheme inception in 2005
showing by Oblast and Rayon the crops grown and premium and claims data. Between 2004 and
2010 the FFSA received total administrative and operating (A&)) subsides from government of
KTZ 319 million (US$ 2.5 million) or an average of KTZ 46 million (US$ 0.36 million) per year.
Apart from the direct financial support of the FFSA‘s A&O expenses, GRK also indirectly
provides subsidies towards the costs of field-level loss assessment activities (government staff,
vehicles, equipment etc).

3.33. Over the past 6 years, GRK has provided KZT 4.7 billion to the FFSA of which 93%
has been allocated to settling the 50% of claims and 9% to the A&O expenses of the FFSA .
Reference to Table 3.3. shows that in the start-up phase of this scheme, GRK provided KZT 2
billion per year for the first two years and since then smaller payments such that by completion of
2010 the scheme has received total financial subsidies valued at KZT 4.7 billion (about US$ 31



                                                   - 68 -
million)29. Over the six years to 2010, the 50% claims compensation fund has received a total of
KZT 4.3 billion (US$ 28.9 million) funds from government.

3.34. Over the past 6 years (2005-2010), the FFSA has reimbursed the Insurance Companies
a total of KZT 3.84 billion (US$ 25.6 million) equivalent to 46.7% of total paid claims. Over
this period FFSA has settled an average of KTZ 641 million per year (US$4.3 million) in 50%
claims to the insurance companies each year. It is, however, noticeable that over the past three
years the trend has been for increased claims and in 2010 the cost of the 50% claims
reimbursement to FFSA was KZT 1.2 billion (US$ 8.0 million). At end 2010 the claims fund had
KZT 538 million in reserves which would be inadequate to cover the average claims cost of the
past 3 years. The level of GRK budgetary support for crop insurance in 2011 is not known.

Table 3.3 State Budget program 050 “Support for crop insurance” (million KZT)
      Year       Budget                       Allocation
                                                                                Disbursements
                Allocation    Agent services payment        50% Claims    Actual 50%     Balance on
                                for crop insurance         Compensation     Claims      Claims Fund
                              system administration           Fund         Payments
      2004       2,000.0              10.0                      1,990.0
      2005       2,000.0              10.0                      1,990.0     520.1         3,459.9
      2006        100.0               60.0                       40.0       236.0         3,263.9
      2007        300.0               68.4                      231.6       350.2         3,145.3
      2008        100.0               68.4                       31.6       819.1         2,357.8
      2009        100.0               49.9                       50.1       693.1         1,714.7
      2010        100.0               52.2                       47.8       1,224.5       538.0
      Total      4,700.0              318.9                     4,381.1     3,843.1
     Average       783                 53                        730         641
Source: Authors, adapted from ARKA 2011 and FFSA 2011 data
3.35. Issues relating to the whether it is more cost effective for government to provide 50%
quota-share coinsurance of claims, or to switch its financial support to premium subsidies and or
towards the purchasing of reinsurance and or some form of catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance
protection are considered further in Chapter 4.


Performance Assessment: Technical Results, Liabilities, Reinsurance
3.36. This Section presents a review of the Compulsory Crop Insurance Results from 2005 to
2010 and full details are contained in Annex 3.
Coverage (Insured Crops, Insured Farmers and Insured Area)

3.37. Crop insurance has reached high levels of penetration in Kazakhstan. Owing to its
compulsory nature, crop insurance has reached high levels of penetration in the country both in
terms of the number of insured farmers and insured area.

3.38. The crop insurance portfolio is mainly comprised of spring sown cereals of which
spring wheat is the most important insured crop. In the six years the scheme has operated from


29
     At the current 2011 exchange rate of KZT 150 = US$ 1.0


                                                       - 69 -
2005 to 2010, spring crops have accounted on average for 98% of the insured area and spring
wheat has accounted for 86% of the insured area of spring crops (Annex 3).

3.39. Over the period 2005 to 2010, the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme issued an
average of 23,494 crop insurance policies per year with an average of 523 hectares of insured
crops per policy. Coverage peaked in 2008 with a total of 33,957 insured policies, but in 2010
the number of policies was halved to only 16,766 polices. It is noticeable, however, that in 2010
the average size of insured farm was significantly larger than in any other year with an average of
756 Ha per policy, or 144% of the 5-year average of 523 Ha/policy. According to the insurance
industry the major losses experienced in 2009 disproportionately affected smaller farmers:
insurers were very reluctant to insure these small farmers in 2010 resulting in a major reduction in
the number of insured polices and a shift in the portfolio towards larger insured farms in 2010.

3.40. It is difficult to report the type of beneficiary and percentage of insured farms in
Kazakhstan. In 2010 there were a total of 7,441 registered Agricultural Enterprises (Production
Enterprises) and 193,435 Peasant Farms (Commercial Farms) or a total of 200,876 farms (Arka
2011). With a total of 16,766 insured crop policies in 2010, this might suggest an insurance
penetration level of only 8.3% of all farms. Caution must, however, be exercised in interpreting
these figures for the reasons set out below. It is understood that practically all (100%) of the
7,441 Agricultural Enterprises (PEs) purchase crop insurance because of their high profile and the
major financial penalties (fines) which they are likely to incur if they do not purchase compulsory
cover. Conversely it is understood that crop insurance uptake by small Commercial Farms (CFs)
is very low across the country. Finally the number of farm holdings data distorts the true
penetration rates for crop insurance because it includes large numbers of small Peasant Livestock
holdings which are outside the scope of this compulsory crop insurance scheme.

3.41. The Crop insurance scheme is highly concentrated in the main spring cereal belt of
northern Kazakhstan. Over the past 6 years a total of 73.4 million hectares of crops have been
insured under the Compulsory LIC Scheme. Overall, 77% of this total area has been underwritten
in the 3 northern Oblasts of Kostanay (29% of insured area), Akmola (26%) and NKO (22%).
Conversely crop insurance is relatively unimportant in the other 11 Oblasts none of which
accounts for more than 5% of total scheme insured area to date (Figure 3.1).
Figure 3.1. Kazakhstan: Percentage Distribution of Insured Area by Oblast (2005-2010)
                                  35%
   % of Total Insured Area (Ha)




                                                                      29%
                                  30%
                                        26%
                                  25%                                            22%
                                  20%
                                  15%
                                  10%
                                                        5%   4%                        5%
                                  5%          3%                                                 3%
                                                   2%                                       1%        1%
                                                                            0%
                                  0%




Source: FFSA 2011




                                                             - 70 -
3.42. The insured area has increased over time with a peak of 15.0 million insured hectares
in 2009 representing 82% of the total eligible acreage of the insurable crops grown in
Kazakhstan in 2009. In 2005 the first year of the compulsory scheme, the insured area was 10.5
million Ha (70% of total sown area), by 2008 this had increased to 14.5 million Ha (84% of total
sown area) and in 2009 a further increase was registered to 15.0 million Ha (82% of total sown
area). In 2010, however, the insured area declined significantly to 12.7 million hectares or only
68% of total eligible acreage.
3.43. Over 6 years the scheme has operated the insured area of crops has averaged 73% of
the total sown area; this implies that in spite of the compulsory nature of the national crop
insurance scheme that more than a quarter of the cropped area has not been insured. The fact
that on average nearly one-quarter of the insurable area has remained uninsured shows that the
compulsory scheme is failing to achieve one of its core objectives namely to ensure that all
farmers are insured against catastrophe crop loss. There are a number of reasons for the failure to
achieve a higher level of insurance penetration. Over the past 3 years most insurance companies
have incurred negative underwriting results particularly in the drought prone regions of WKO and
Aktobe and they are increasingly reluctant to operate in these high risk areas: also their results
have on average been worse for small peasant farmers and as evidenced in 2010 they were not
willing to renew cover for this group of farmers. Many crop producers interviewed under this
study do not perceive any benefits from the compulsory crop insurance scheme and some prefer
to pay the fines for failure to contract insurance rather than to pay the premiums.

3.44. The pattern of crop insurance penetration as measured by the ratio of insured area to
total planted crop area is very uneven across the country. In the northern and eastern regions of
Kazakhstan where large-scale spring wheat production is concentrated, over the 5 year period
2006 to 2010, the percentage of total insured area has exceeded 70% of total planted area in the
Oblasts of Kostanay (90%), Pavlodar (79%), NKO (76%) Akmola (75%), EKO 72%. Conversely
uptake has been much lower in the very drought prone region of western Kazakhstan in the
Oblasts of WKO (58%) and Aktobe (52%). Even lower penetration rates have been recorded in
the southern region of Kazakhstan as evidenced by the rates in Zhambyl (41%), Almaty (41%)
and SKO (27%) (Figure 3.2. and Map a1 in Annex 3). Given the fact this is a compulsory
insurance scheme the extremely low uptake figures in southern Kazakhstan are unexpected. The
main reasons for the very low uptake in southern Kazakhstan are due to (i) Insurers‘ reluctance to
insure the often very small farms and (ii) the fact that a high proportion of agricultural cropping is
irrigated and farmers do not see any value in purchasing the catastrophe drought insurance cover.




                                               - 71 -
Figure 3.2. Kazakhstan: Insured Area Penetration Rates by Oblast (2006-2010)
                                       100%                                  90%
   % Total Planted Area Insured (Ha)    90%
                                                                                           76%   79%
                                        80%   75%               74%
                                                                      68%
                                        70%                                          61%
                                                    55%                                                      58%
                                        60%
                                        50%               41%                                                      41%
                                        40%
                                                                                                       27%
                                        30%
                                        20%
                                        10%
                                         0%




Source: World Bank analysis of FFSA data 2011
Scheme Liability (Total Sum Insured) and Levels of Protection afforded to Farmers

3.45. Since inception in 2005, the average scheme total liability has been about KZT 40
billion (US$ 267 million) per year. Over the past six years the Total Sum Insured (TSI) of the
scheme has increased from KTZ 34.4 million (US$ 229 million) in 2005 to a peak of KZT 52.9
Billion (US$ 353 million) in 2009 reflecting the gradual increase in coverage over time as the
program has matured in terms of numbers of insured farmers and insured area. In 2010, however,
with the reductions in number of insured farmers and insured crop area, the TSI was
correspondingly reduced to KZT 47.3 billion (US$ 325 million). (See Annex 3 for details).

3.46. The Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme Financial Liability is very unevenly
distributed throughout Kazakhstan. Reference to Figure 3.3 shows that over the past 6 years the
scheme liability has been highly concentrated in the 3 northern Oblasts of Akmola, NKO and
Kostanay accounting for 78% of total sum insured (TSI) and which is a reflection of the fact that
grain production is highly concentrated in these regions. This represents a very large
accumulation of risk in the event of a major drought event affecting the northern region.
Conversely, no other Oblast has accounted for more than 5% of scheme liability over the past 6
years and liability is very low in the southern part of the country (SKO, Almaty, Zhambyl and
Kyzylorda Oblasts).




                                                                            - 72 -
Figure 3.3. Kazakhstan: Distribution of Total Sum Insured per Oblast (2005 to 2010)
                             35%
                                                             31%
                             30%
                                   25%
      Percent of TSI (KZT)

                             25%                                           22%
                             20%
                             15%
                             10%
                                                   5%                            4%
                             5%          3%   2%        3%                                 2%
                                                                      1%              1%        1%
                             0%




Source: FFSA 2011

Levels of Sum Insured Protection purchased by Farmers

3.47. The sum insured levels elected by the farmers to protect their crops are extremely low
and over the past 6 years the average sum insured for all crops was only KZT 3289 per hectare
(US$ 23/Ha30). As noted previously, MoA is responsible, in conjunction, with the local
authorities in each region for the setting of the sums insured for each crop type in each Oblast and
agro-ecological zone based on three levels of technology package (high, medium and low) and
the associated costs of production. Farmers are then permitted to choose which level of
production costs they wish to insure their crops grown in their own fields. An analysis of the
actual average sums insured elected by farmers since scheme inception shows that most farmers
are purchasing the lowest permitted sum insured level which only covers three production cost
items (wages, fuel & lubricants and seeds): over the 6 year period the average sum insured has
been KZT 3,289/Ha (about US$ 23/Ha) with a range from an average low in 2007 of KZT
2,871/Ha (US$ 20/Ha) to an average high in 2010 of KZT 3,728/Ha (US$ 26/Ha). (See Annex 5).

3.48. On the basis of this study it appears that many farmers elect the lowest permitted sum
insured levels per hectare in order to minimize the amount of premium they have to pay .
Farmers‘ reasons for selecting the lowest permitted normative costs of production sum insured
level typically centered on the fact that the policy only insured a low proportion of their
production costs and expected yield and because they would have to incur a near total loss in
order to trigger an indemnity, the coverage provided was not beneficial to them: for this reason
farmers generally opt for the lowest sum insured level.

3.49. The current levels of sums insured do not afford farmers adequate protection against
the loss of the costs they have invested in growing the crop. For spring wheat where average
total costs of production were about KZT 12,000 to KZT 17,500/Ha in 2010, the current sum
insured levels of about KZT 3,500/Ha (minimum) and KZT 9,000/Ha (maximum) only represent
between 20% and 50% of the actual total costs invested in producing the crop. In the event of a
total loss the indemnity payment is therefore very inadequate to cover their incurred costs and
may not be adequate to cover the costs of production loans from banks etc.
30
     At a 2010 average exchange rate of Kazakhstan Tenge 145 = US$ 1.0.


                                                             - 73 -
3.50. Over the past five years the effective amount of yield protection afforded to farmers by
the Loss of Investment Cost Policy has gradually been eroded. Under the LIC Policy an
indemnity is payable when the value of any harvestable production (salvage) is inadequate to
cover the costs of production invested in growing the crop. The analysis presented in Figure 3.4.
shows that over the past 6 years the average sum insured per hectare has only increased by 13%
from KZT 3,288/Ha (2005) to KZT 3,728/Ha (2010). Over this period, however, the average
September farm-gate price for wheat has increased significantly by 350% from KZT 1,149/center
(2005) to KZT 3,988/center (2010)31. With the increase in wheat prices which are used to value
salvage there has been a major erosion of /reduction in the underlying insured wheat yield: In
2005 with an average sum insured of KZT 3,288/Ha when the average farm gate sale price for
wheat was very low at KZT 1,149/center, the policy would start to indemnify losses when the
remaining yield fell below 2.85 centners per hectare: however, by 2010 with a high average sale
price of KZT 3,988/center a farmer would only receive an indemnity when his actual yield fell
below 0.93 centners/Ha.

3.51. The current LIC crop insurance policy provides one of the lowest levels of yield
protection of any major individual grower national crop insurance scheme. The current LIC
Policy with its very low sums insured equates to an insured yield coverage level of about 1
centner per hectare or on average only 14% of the national average spring wheat yield. This
compares with global norms for most individual grower loss of yield insurance policies which
offer minimum insured yield coverage levels of about 40% to 50% of average yield and in some
countries the maximum insured yield coverage levels that farmers can purchase are 75% to 85%
of the farmer‘s normal average yield. There is a need to review the insured yield coverage levels
provided under the Kazakhstan compulsory crop insurance scheme and this is a subject which is
discussed in Chapter 4.


Figure 3.4. Evolution of Wheat Sums Insured, average wheat farm gate prices and effective
yield coverage levels of LIC Policy
                                          4500                                                                                                       3.50




                                                                                                                                                            Wheat Yield Equivalent (Centner/Ha)
      Average Sum Insured (KZT/Hectare)




                                          4000                                                                                                       3.00
                                                                 2.86
         Wheat Price (KZT/Centner)




                                          3500
                                                                                                                                                     2.50
                                          3000                                 2.30
                                          2500                                                                                                       2.00
                                          2000                                                                                                       1.50
                                                                                             1.29                        1.38
                                          1500
                                                                                                           1.05                        0.93          1.00
                                          1000
                                           500                                                                                                       0.50

                                             0                                                                                                       -
                                              2004        2005          2006          2007          2008          2009          2010          2011
                                           Average Sum Insured (KZT/Ha)         Wheat price (KZT/Centner)           Wheat Yield Equivalent (Centner/Ha)


Source: Authors based on FFSA sum insured data and September Wheat Price Data from Arka Consulting

Financial Performance: Premiums, Claims and Claims Ratios

31
     Wheat prices based on data provided by Arka Consulting 2011


                                                                                        - 74 -
Overall Results

3.52. The compulsory crop insurance program in Kazakhstan has experienced poor overall
underwriting results over the period 2005 to 2010. The long-term average loss ratio for the 6-
year period 2005-2010 is 140% and in four of the six years the scheme has operated at a financial
loss in terms of the gross claims to premium or loss ratio exceeding 100%. The average net loss
ratio to the insurance companies after the reimbursement of 50 percent insurance losses (claims)
from the government is 75%. Assuming average administrative and acquisition expenses of 25%
to 30% of gross premium for the industry, the average net loss ratio of 78% indicates that at best
the insurance companies and farmers‘ mutual insurance associations are operating on a breakeven
basis, but that most of the companies have been operating at a financial loss. (Table 3.4).

3.53. The results show that underwriting results have deteriorated badly over the past three
years 2008 to 2010 which coincides with drought loss years, especially in 2010. Over the past
three years the program has incurred negative underwriting results in all years and an average loss
ratio of 182% (99% after operation of the government claims subsidies) and with a worst loss
year in 2010 with 261% loss ratio: in 2010 underwriters paid out claims of KTZ 2.61 for every
KTZ 1.00 they received in premiums prior to recoveries from FFSA/government. On account of
the very poor results all but three of the seven registered commercial insurance companies have
now declined to write the compulsory crop insurance scheme.

Table 3.4. Summary of Kazakhstan Crop Insurance Financial Results 2005-2010
 Item                                 2005     2006       2007     2008     2009     2010     Total
 No. of Policies (000)                  19.0     13.6       25.4     34.0     32.2     16.8     141.0
 Total Insured Area (Million Ha)        10.5      9.1       12.1     14.5     15.0     12.7      73.8
 Sum Insured (Million KZT)            34,372   26,650     34,796   46,645   52,903   47,266   242,631
 Premiums (Million KZT)                 899      685        997     1,093    1,114    1,074     5,862
 Average Premium Rate                 2.61%    2.57%      2.87%    2.34%    2.11%    2.27%     2.42%
 Claim payments (Million KZT)          1,065     478        701     1,710    1,465    2,805     8,223
 Loss Ratio (%)                       119%       70%        70%    156%     131%     261%      140%
 Loss cost (%)                         3.1%     1.8%       2.0%     3.7%     2.8%     5.9%      3.4%
 FFSA Compensation (Million KZT)        520      236        350      819      693     1,225     3,843
 FFSA Compensation % of claims          49%      49%        50%      48%      47%      44%       47%
 Loss Ratio % (Net of FFSA support)     61%      35%        35%      81%      69%    147%       75%
Source: FFSA 2011

Regional Performance (By Oblasts)

3.54. Scheme performance varies widely across different regions and the very poor
underwriting results in Aktobe and WKO are making the scheme financially unviable. The
pattern of claims varies widely by geographic region. The best performing Oblast is NKO which
over the past 6 years has contributed 22% of total scheme liability, but only 3% of claims and has
a long-term loss ratio of only 24%. The next best performing Oblast is Kostanay which has the
largest share or 31% of total scheme liability but which has only accounted for only 11% of total
claims and which has a long-term loss ratio of 73%. At the other extreme, Aktobe and WKO in
western Kazakhstan which have collectively accounted for only 4.8% of total scheme liability
over the past 6 years have incurred 41% of all claims and respectively have 6-year long-term loss
ratios of 381% and 507%. These two Oblasts are severely prejudicing the financial viability of



                                                 - 75 -
the whole of the national crop insurance program and measures of controlling the claims costs in
these two Oblasts must urgently be introduced. (Figure 3.5). (See Annex 3 for full details).

Figure 3.5. Scheme Liability, Claims and Loss Ratio by Oblast (2005-2010)

 35%                                                                                      600%
 30%                                                                             507%     500%
 25%                                                                                    412%
                    381%                                                                   400%
 20%
                                                                                          300%
 15%
                                                                  199%                    200%
 10%                              176%
                           132%
   5%        105%                        100%                                             100%
                                                73%
                                                            24%          30%
   0%                                                 2%                                  0%




                      % of TSI           % of Claims Payments       Loss Ratio

Source: World Bank analysis of FFSA data
Causes of Loss

3.55. Drought has been the main cause of loss under the compulsory crop insurance scheme.
Drought events accounted for 91% of the total reported damaged area in the 5-year period 2006-
2010 and with the inclusion of losses due to drought in combination with other perils such as hail
or freeze, total drought losses rises to 97% of the total damaged area. The second most important
cause of loss has been Hailstorms, which have accounted for 2.5% of the total area lost due to
insured perils. . (See Annex 3).

Adequacy of Premiums Rates and Claims Costs

3.56. Over the past 6 years there has been a tendency for average premium rates to be
reduced although this is not justified by the claims experience. At the time of scheme inception
in 2005 a system of single of fixed premium rates for each crop in each Oblast was adopted under
the compulsory crop insurance scheme and these rates applied during the three year period 2005
to 2007. During this three year period the average premium rate was 2.68% with very little
variation year on year from a low average of 2.57% in 2006 and an average high of 2.87% in
2007. Prior to the 2008 renewal the rating system was reviewed and amended to introduce a
system of minimum and maximum premium rates and the minimum premium rates were lower
than the original single fixed premium rates. In 2008 the scheme was also opened up to
competition by the newly formed mutual crop insurance associations. For the past 3 years (2008-
2010) the premium rates charged by the insurers have decreased to an average of 2.24%
representing a reduction of nearly 17% on the previous three year average. According to the
commercial insurance companies the Mutual Insurers generally charge their members the
minimum premium rates set by government and that price competition has been the cause of the
reduction in the overall average premium rates charged on the scheme. At the same time that
average premium rates have been reduced, the claims on the scheme have risen significantly
(Figure 3.6.).



                                                   - 76 -
3.57. The past three years have seen a tendency for increased claims on the compulsory crop
insurance scheme and with the reduction in average premium rates the scheme has now
become seriously under-rated. In Figure 3.6 a comparison is made of the annual average
premium rate charged on the scheme the annual average loss cost which is equivalent to the value
of claims divided by the total sum insured and expressed as a percentage. The loss cost is a
useful ratio as it shows the minimum premium rate that would need to be charged on an insurance
scheme to exactly cover the paid claims. Figure 3.6 shows that in the three years to 2007 the
average premium rates were adequate to cover the average loss costs, but that since 2008 there
has been a major increase in claims on this scheme such that the average loss costs have exceeded
the average premium rates in all three years, culminating in the peak loss cost of 5.93% of TSI in
2010 against an average premium rate of only 2.27%. This analysis shows that there is an urgent
need to review and adjust the premium rates on this scheme in order to maintain its financial
viability.

Figure 3.6. Evolution of the Average Premium Rate and Loss Cost (2005-2010)
                                            6.50%
   Average premium rate & Loss Cost (% of




                                            6.00%                                                           5.93%
                                            5.50%
                                            5.00%
                                            4.50%
                                            4.00%
                   TSI)




                                            3.50%                                        3.67%
                                            3.00%          3.10%
                                                                              2.87%                 2.77%
                                            2.50%          2.61%    2.57%
                                                                                         2.34%              2.27%
                                            2.00%                             2.01%                 2.11%
                                                                    1.79%
                                            1.50%
                                                 2004   2005    2006     2007       2008      2009       2010   2011

                                                         Average Premium Rate %          Loss cost (%)

Source: World Bank analysis of FFSA Data 2011

3.58. The claims experience between 2005 and 2010 shows that the scheme is severely under-
rated in WKO and Akmole Oblasts in Western Kazakhstan and this applies to a lesser extent in
several other Oblasts. The 6-year long-term average loss cost on the scheme currently stands at
3.4%, but the pattern of losses varies widely across geographical region. Figure 3.6 shows that
over this period average premium rates have been highest in WKO with an average premium rate
of 7.8%: however, this premium rate has been totally inadequate to cover the actual claims as
evidenced by the loss cost of 39.6%. This is followed by Aktobe with average premium rates of
5.8%, but again the program has been very under-rated in this Oblast as the break-even rate to
cover actual claims should have been 22.2%. Other Oblasts where the scheme has been under-
rated include Pavlodar, Zhambyl, EKO and Almaty. In contrast, the scheme has performed very
well in NKO with a 6-year long term average loss cost of only 0.5% compared to an average
premium rate of 2.0%: this Oblast has in effect cross-subsidised the very poor results in WKO
and Aktobe over the past 6 years. This evidence shows that very substantial premium rate
increases would be required in WKO and Aktobe if the scheme was actuarially rated in these
Oblasts: however the minimum average rates of at least 40% (WKO) and 22% (Aktobe) would
not be commercially acceptable to farmers in these Oblasts.




                                                                                - 77 -
Figure 3.6. Analysis of Adequacy of Premium Rates by Oblast (2005-2010)

    Zhambyl           3.5%
       WKO                      7.8%
        SKO          2.7%
   Pavlodar            3.6%
        NKO        2.0%
  Kyzylorda                5.2%
   Kostanay        1.7%
  Karaganda               4.7%
        EKO           3.4%
     Almaty            3.5%
     Aktobe                 5.8%
    Akmola         1.9%
            0.0%     5.0%      10.0%    15.0%    20.0%    25.0%    30.0%      35.0%   40.0%
                              Average Premium Rate and Loss Cost (% of TSI)
                                  Loss cost  Avg Premium Rate

Source: World Bank analysis of FFSA Data 2011

3.59. The variation in claims experience between Rayons in the same Oblast clearly indicates
a need to introduce a system of Rayon-level actuarial rating. The 5-year claims experience also
varies significantly between Rayons in each Oblast. For example in Rayons located in northern
NKO average loss costs are less than 0.25%, but in the southern part of the Oblast which is drier,
rayon-level loss costs are higher with a maximum of 0.5-1.0% loss cost. Similar differences in
drought risk exposure and loss costs between rayons also apply to other Oblasts such as Pavlodar,
Akmola, Kostanay and WKO. (See Map 3.1.). This analysis clearly demonstrates a need to
consider introducing a system of rayon-level rates in future.

                   Map 3.1. Variation in Loss Costs by Rayon (2006-2010)




                             Source: World Bank analysis of FFSA Data 2011


                                                - 78 -
3.60. The analysis of variation in yields at Rayon-level also shows that there are significant
differences in the yields obtained by different types of farmer and which would need to be
addressed in rating? Specifically, the analysis of time-series Rayon spring wheat yields obtained
by the large-scale Production Enterprises and the smaller Commercial Farms shows that yields
are much more variable for the Commercial Farmers on account of their lower levels of
technology and this would require higher premium rates to be charged for this group of farmers.

Financial and Reinsurance Issues

3.61. The claims results have been very volatile in the past 6 years with a trend over the past
three years for increased claims. Over the past 6 years the pattern of claims on the compulsory
crop insurance scheme have been very volatile with a range from a low of KZT 478 million (US$
3.9 million) in 2006 to a high of KZT 2,805 million (US$ 8.4 million) in 201032. There has also
been a marked trend towards increasing claims over the past 3 years which coincide with three
very bad drought years. (Table 3.4).

3.62. Over the past 6 years, the scheme has paid total claims of KZT 8.22 billion (US$ 62
million) of which the private and mutual insurers have paid 53% of total claims and
government, through the FFSA, has reimbursed the insurers for 47% of the total value of
claims.(Table 3.4). The government provides 50% proportional or quota share reinsurance
protection to the insurance companies free of cost.

3.63. Under the compulsory crop insurance scheme, insurance companies have little scope to
managing their liability on their 50% of risk retentions and they are very exposed to major
losses. The insurance companies have very little ability to manage their exposure to losses on this
compulsory scheme because they are not able to exercise decisions over individual risk
acceptance or to decline to underwrite the portfolio in regions which they consider to be too risky.
In spite of the government‘s reinsurance protection, the insurance companies remain very
exposed to loss as they retain unlimited liability on their 50% share of claims. Any company
which has written an imbalanced portfolio which is overly concentrated in the western Oblasts of
Kazakhstan will have incurred unsustainable underwriting losses over the past 6 years and
especially in 2010 as evidenced by the gross loss ratios of 900% Aktobe (450% net of FFSA
reinsurance) and 1075% WKO (537% net of FFSA reinsurance). Even those insurance
companies which are fully capitalized and maintain claims reserves would not be able to sustain
such losses in the medium term.

3.64. Currently, private commercial insurers are unable to obtain commercial reinsurance
protection to limit their exposure to catastrophe losses on the obligatory crop insurance
scheme. It is understood that several private commercial insurers have in the past sought
quotations from international reinsurers to provide either quota-share or non-proportional
reinsurance on their portfolios. International reinsurers, are however, reluctant to provide
capacity support for the scheme for reasons including: i) the compulsory nature of the scheme
which prevents them from selecting which risks they are willing to underwrite in which region(s),
ii) the fact that the scheme is under-rated and iii) the fact that indemnity and loss assessment
procedures would require strengthening to meet international standards.

3.65. The Farmer’s Mutual Crop Insurance Associations are not required to maintain
claims reserves and they are therefore unable to meet their liabilities if claims exceed the net

32
  Actual annual average exchange rates KZT and US Dollars used: 2006 KZT 122 = US$ 1.00; 2010 KZT
145 = US$ 1.00.


                                              - 79 -
premiums they collect from their grower members. The private registered insurance companies
are obliged by insurance legislation to both meet minimum capital requirements to underwrite any
class of business, but also they retain full liability to settle any and all legitimate claims. In
contrast, the farmer mutual crop insurance associations which have been formed since 2008 do
not face any minimum capital requirements, or requirements to meet claims which exceed the net
premiums (premium net of management charges which are typically in the order of 25% of gross
premium) paid into their mutual funds by their grower members. On the basis of this study it is
apparent that several of the mutuals interviewed were not able to meet their 50% share of claims
liabilities in full in 2010 and these associations were therefore forced to pro-rata down the claims
paid to all farmers who incurred losses. These companies were, however, able to collect the
government 50% of claims payments in full and to return these amounts to their members. It is
not possible to report on the extent of this problem in both 2009 and 2010 in terms of the number
of mutual associations which could not meet their liabilities on their 50% retained claims.

3.66. In Kazakhstan there is a concern that if the mutual crop insurers are not able to meet
their claims liabilities in full this will rapidly undermine farmer’s confidence in mutual
insurance. International experience shows that where mutual crop insurers have not been able to
meet their financial liabilities in catastrophe years that this rapidly undermines the confidence of
their farmer members and usually leads to the collapse of the mutual(s). There is an urgent need
in Kazakhstan to i) review the extent of this problem among the mutual insurers, ii) to seek ways
of strengthening their claims reserves and iii) to consider alternative ways of reinsuring the
mutuals in order to cap their liability in the event of catastrophe losses – for example through
some form of non-proportional reinsurance on their retained risk. This is a subject which is
reviewed further in Section 4.

3.67. Government is also exposed to catastrophe losses on this scheme and which may not
have been budgeted for. To date government has funded the FFSA to the tune of KZT 4.4 billion
and has paid out KZT 3.8 billion in 50% reinsured claims. Government‘s liabili ty over the past 6
years has been very volatile varying from total payments in 2006 of KTZ 250 million to as high
as KZT 1.2 billion in 2010. In common with the problem faced by insurance companies,
government‘s liability cannot be budgeted ex-ante and also the claims fund may be inadequate to
cover catastrophe claims which may be incurred every hundred or more years. (Figure 3.7).

Figure 3.7. Evolution of Claims and Share of Claims paid by Insurers and Government
                               3000
   Paid Claims (KZT Million)




                               2500

                               2000

                               1500          y = 362.05x + 103.28
                                                  R² = 0.6515
                               1000

                                500

                                  0
                                      2005        2006         2007            2008           2009   2010

                                             Total Claims                  Net Claims to Insurers
                                             Government Reinsurance        Linear (Total Claims)

Source: Authors based on FFSA information


                                                                      - 80 -
3.68. Due to ambiguities in the indemnity formula used to settle losses on the Loss of
Investment Costs Policy, both the insurance companies and government face considerable
uncertainty over their financial liability in the event of claims. The LIC policy indemnity
formula for partial losses values any remaining harvestable production (salvage) according to the
actual local sale price for wheat at the time of loss. This means that neither the insurance
companies nor the government can predict their financial liabilities with any accuracy at the time
of renewing cover each year: instead they have to wait until the time of harvest to discover their
liability. This is illustrated in Table 3.5 for a 1 hectare field of wheat with an average normative
costs of production sum insured of 3,500/Ha and three different wheat prices which apply at
harvest ranging from a low of KZT 2,000/center (as encountered in 2007); KZT 2,500/center and
finally a high price similar to the average for 2010 of 3,500 /center. When average sales prices
for wheat are low (KZT 2,000/center), insurers‘ are more exposed to first loss because once the
actual average yield falls below 1.75 centner/Ha the revenue from the crop will be less than the
break-even sum insured value of KZT 3,500/Ha. Conversely when wheat prices are high (KZT
3,500/center) the insurers‘ are much less exposed to loss as they will only be liable for a claim
once the actual remaining yield (salvage) falls below 1.0 centner/Ha. Insurers‘ and government‘s
uncertainties over their financial exposure can only be removed by agreeing a valuation price for
salvage at the time of policy inception. This valuation price could either be based on an average
of the recent historical farm-gate prices for each crop in each Oblast or based on MOA‘s
estimated average prices for the current season.

Table 3.5. Examples of Indemnity Calculations according to different wheat prices at
harvest
                                                     Price of Wheat at Harvest (KZT/Centner)
         Indemnity Calculation
                                        Price 1: KZT 2000      Price 2: KZT 2500     Price 3: KZT 3500
                                           per centner            per centner           per centner
                                               3,500                  3,500                 3,500
 Sum Insured (KZT/Ha)
                                              1.75                    1.40                     1.00
 Break-even yield (Centner/Ha)
                                              2,000                   2,500                3,500
 Sale value wheat (KZT/centner)
                                              3,500                   3,500                3,500
 Revenue Value for Salvage (KZT)
Source: Authors

3.69. Insurers and government face major exposures on this scheme in the event of a
catastrophe year as defined by the probable maximum loss expected 1 in 100 years. To date the
worst loss on this scheme over the 6-year history was in 2010 equivalent to a loss of 5.9% of the
total liability (TSI), valued at KZT 2.81 billion (US$ 19.3 million). This loss is equivalent to a
return period of about 1 in 45 to 50 years, but is not the worst loss that insurers and their reinsurer
(government may expect in future. Figure 3.8 and Table 3.6 show the results of a modeling
exercise to calculate the probable maximum loss for the scheme for return periods of up to 250
years and for four different assumptions (i) the actual average 3-year portfolio, ii) assuming a
wheat indemnity sale price of KZT 2000/center, iii) wheat indemnity sale price KZT
2,500/centner and finally iv) wheat indemnity sale price for KZT 3,500/Ha. Figure 3.8 shows that
for option i) the actual portfolio the 1 in 100 year PML is 9.4% of TSI which would be equivalent
to a loss of KZT 4.4 billion (US$ 29.3 million) at 2010 portfolio TSI of KZT 46.48 billion: this
PML loss would equate to a gross loss ratio of nearly 396% at 2010 premium terms. The analysis
also shows that if the actual average prices of wheat were to fall to levels of between KZT
2000/center and KZT 2500/center that the PML exposures would be very much higher on this
scheme.



                                                - 81 -
Figure 3.8. Probable Maximum Loss estimates assuming 2010 average sum insured per
hectare and 3 scenarios of wheat prices
                          25%

                          20%
    % Loss Cost - % TSI




                          15%

                          10%

                           5%

                           0%
                                0              50                    100                  150                 200           250
                                                                    Return Period (years)
                                                    3-year Average Price            Price= KZT 3500/centner
                                                    Price= KZT 2500/centner         Price = KZT 2000/center


Source: Authors analysis

Table 3.6. Estimates Probable maximum Loss According to different price assumptions
(KZT 000)*
    Return
    Period                          Actual Portfolio            Wheat Price 1                Wheat Price 2           Wheat Price 3
     (Years)                        avg last 3 years          KZT 3500/Centner             KZT 2500/Centner         KZT 2000/Centner
                          10             785,966                    682,553                     1,159,043               1,707,702
                          25            1,778,278                  1,565,370                    2,520,147               3,484,647
                          50            2,867,899                  2,543,651                    3,929,562               5,430,554
                   100                  4,372,797                  3,960,971                    6,195,513               7,950,115
                   250                  7,354,656                  6,847,274                    9,111,056              11,736,143
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA data.
* PML values calculated based on portfolio TSI of KZT 46.48 billion.




Assessment of the Technical, Operational and Institutional Features of the
Compulsory Crop Insurance Program
3.70. This sub-section provides a review of the technical, operational, institutional and
financial features of the compulsory crop insurance program and highlights some of the key
advantages, issues and drawbacks of the current program.

Technical

3.71. The salvage based loss of investment crop insurance policy implemented in Kazakhstan
has several advantages, but also a series of drawbacks. The main advantages of the Loss of
Investment Cost policy are (a) that it provides comprehensive multiple-peril crop insurance,
MPCI, protection to the farmer again the loss of his production costs invested in growing the crop


                                                                           - 82 -
and (b) that it can be used in situations where there is inadequate or no information on individual
farmer historical crop yields. This is in contrast to a conventional loss of yield MPCI policy
which relies on time-series farm-level crop production and yield data to establish a normal
average yield and then an insured yield for each farmer. There are, however several potential
drawbacks of the Loss of Investment Cost policy including the need for in-field yield-based loss
assessment where partial losses are involved and often the difficulty of establishing objectively
the salvageable amount of the crop and its sale value and whether this salvage value exceeds the
insured investment costs leading to a claim.

3.72. The coverage levels provided by the crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan are
extremely low. The sum insured levels that MOA is responsible for fixing each year by crop and
by Oblast according to three technology levels: high, medium and low are extremely low for most
crops as shown in Table 3.2. In practice it appears that practically all farmers in Kazakhstan elect
the cheapest or lowest sum insured coverage option of about KZT 3,500/Ha (slightly less than
US$ 25/Ha nationally for spring wheat) because they will pay the least amount of premium for
this option. However, this means that on average farmers are only insuring between 20% to 30%
of their total production costs. The very low crop insurance cover levels are therefore, often
inadequate to put farmers back into production in the event of major crop losses.

3.73. The crop insurance premium rates are calculated for each crop at an Oblast level and
do not take into account differences in risk either at the local Rayon level or at the individual
farmer level. Ideally crop insurance premium rates should be established for homogeneous agro-
climatic risk zones, but in most countries such risk zoning and mapping is not available: therefore
rates are typically established for administrative regions and then smoothed to ensure consistency
with adjoining regions. In Kazakhstan the Oblast represents a very large geographical area and
there is evidence that agro-climatic and soil conditions vary widely across most of the Oblasts and
this is reflected in major crop yield differences within the Rayons in each Oblast33. This evidence
suggests there is a need for a technical study to review the possibility of introducing a system of
rayon-level crop insurance premium rates in the short term and while more detailed risk zoning
and risk mapping is carried out. For this reason, under this World Bank Study, an actuarial rating
exercise has been carried out at Rayon-level for spring wheat and the results of this analysis are
presented in Chapter 4.

3.74. Crop Insurance Premium Rates are currently fixed by law for each Crop Type and
group of Oblasts according to Minimum and Maximum rates and Insurers have little influence
over rating decisions. The private and mutual insurance companies have no say in setting
premium rates or in risk selection: they are, however, permitted to charge an individual farmer a
premium rate that falls between the MOA fixed minimum and maximum premium rates.
According to the Private Insurance Companies, they use the minimum and maximum premium
rates to manage, in part, their risk: in the most drought prone regions of the country they charge
the maximum premium rates to try to avoid writing too much crop business and also where they
consider an individual farmer to be a poor risk they again quote the maximum premium rates.
While private insurance companies use this difference in minimum and maximum premiums to
perform some sort of risk selection, farmers‘ mutual associations advised that they nearly always

33
   This is an issue which was identified by the CJSC in their original rating study when they noted that
Oblasts are very large territories and agricultural conditions within the Oblast may change significantly
leading to a situation that farms in low risk areas end up subsidizing farmers with high risk because they
both pay the same tariff averaged for the Oblast. The CJSC, however played down the need for rayon-level
and possibly farmer-level premium rates according to whether they are classified as high or low risk,
because of the compulsory nature of the scheme. (CJSC 2003).


                                                 - 83 -
had to operate at the minimum premium rate levels, because their members were not willing to
pay the higher rates permitted by law. For spring wheat grown in the more favourable / higher
rainfall regions of Akmola, Almaty, Kostanay, East and North Kazakhstan, the current
commercial premium rates are very low at between 1.78% (minimum) and 3.48% (maximum)
and where the mutuals are forced to charge the minimum rate of 1.78% due to competition, it is
unlikely that this rate will be sustainable in the medium to long-term. It appears that there is a
need to reconsider the system of minimum and maximum permitted premium rates.

3.75. The current Crop insurance premium rates do not differentiate between farmers in
terms of technological levels or implementation of risk management practices . The current
rating system does not differentiate between farmers in terms of their technology levels and risk
management practices and therefore does not provide any incentive for farmers to manage their
risk exposures for example to drought by adopting snow conservation measures in winter and
minimum tillage practices and soil moisture conservation practices during the growing season.
Section 2 showed that the large Production Enterprises (PEs) achieve higher average yields and
less variable yields in spring wheat as such they represent a lower risk exposure group that
Commercial Farmers (CFs). The Private Insurers reported that they aim to incentivize the best
farmers by offering them the minimum rates and conversely by penalizing low technology users
in the riskier area by charging the maximum permitted rates.

3.76. It is understood that the crop insurance premium rates do not include specific
allocation for the costs of in-field loss assessment/loss adjustment expenses. Under the current
system each of the five organisations involved in the in-field assessment of total and partial crop
losses is responsible for bearing their own costs of this exercise. In 2010 the average size of a
crop insurance policy was 756 Ha, with average premium of KZT 64,037 (US$ 442) or a
premium per hectare of KZT 85/Ha (US$ 0.58/Ha). Because of the combination of very low
average sums insured per hectare and low premium rates, the average premium per policy is very
low for a cover requiring such intensive in-field loss assessment, and it is likely that the total
costs of adjusting losses will exceed the total premium generated per policy. This evidence
suggests there is a need to review (a) the adequacy of the premium rating methodology for
covering loss assessment expenses and (b) ways of overhauling loss assessment procedures in
order to make these more efficient and to reduce loss assessment expenses (See Section 4 for
recommendations regarding strengthening of loss assessment procedures).

Operational

3.77. The obligatory nature of the Scheme means that there is a major potential problem of
moral hazard in the most drought prone regions of the country. In some regions of Kazakhstan,
seasonal rainfall is extremely marginal for spring wheat production and even in normal rainfall
years is very dependent on the amount of winter snow fall and soil moisture status at the start of
the cropping season. Western Kazakhstan (WKO and Akmola) experiences major droughts every
2 or 3 years and it is possible for farmers to predict a drought year according to the amount of
winter snowfall: however, because of the obligatory nature of the scheme insurers cannot decline
to insure farmers in these areas although they can already foresee that they will incur major
drought induced crop losses. In a predicted severe drought year, the behavior of some farmers in
these regions is also likely modified in two main ways (a) they elect to buy the maximum
―Normative Costs‖ Sum Insured level in the expectation of receiving a claims payment and (b)
they may incur less than their normal levels of expenditure on crop husbandry and inputs because
they know they are likely to lose their crops and in which case they can expect to claim on their
insurance policies (this is termed moral hazard). The private insurance companies have incurred
major losses in West Kazakhstan in the past and are now very reluctant to insure farmers in this


                                              - 84 -
region and it appears that this is one of the major reasons that most of these companies have
ceased underwriting crop insurance.

3.78. Private Insurance Companies do not have their own networks of locally based qualified
agronomists to conduct pre-inspections on the Insured Farms at the time of sowing in order to
confirm whether the farmer has complied with the correct sowing practices, seed rates etc. As
such cover is open to moral hazard. The costs of establishing such a network and in inspecting
each and every farm would be prohibitively expensive to the insurers, and under the current rating
system they are not able to increase rates to cover their A&O expenses.

3.79. The Obligatory Nature of the Scheme means it is very difficult for Insurance
Companies to exercise any form of Accumulation Control. Drought and frost are systemic or
covariate risks that have a potential to correlate over very wide geographic areas. In the context
of any MPCI crop insurance program, it is very important that insurers attempt to manage their
crop insurance portfolios in extreme drought years and they mainly do this by setting
underwriting limits in each region according to the relative rainfall patterns and drought
exposures. In Kazakhstan the huge size of the country means that even in extreme drought years
that not all the spring wheat grown in the country is equally affected by drought and if insurers
were able to set underwriting capacity limits in each region this would enable them to manage
their drought exposures to a major extent. This is, however, currently impossible to achieve
because of the compulsory nature of the crop insurance program.

3.80. Crop insurance is currently marketed exclusively through local sales agents in each
Oblast and Rayon and this represents an expensive delivery channel. All private companies
market their crop insurance policies through local sales agents who receive a commission for their
services which is paid out of the premium collected from the farmer. It is understood that many
of the mutual insurance companies also rely on sales agents to promote and market their crop
insurance policies to farmers who then sign up to the mutual as a member. Current legislation
caps the commission payments to agents and brokers at 10% of the Commercial premium (also
termed Original Gross Premium, OGP) 34. This represents a significant cost which is paid by the
farmer. In many countries, insurers use rural service organizations such as agricultural banks,
microfinance institutions (MFIs), input suppliers and or farmers associations to deliver and
administer crop insurance to their clients: in such cases the rural organisation acts as an agent, but
because of its much lower operating overheads and economies of scale in dealing with large
numbers of clients or members, the commission payments can be significantly reduced as can the
insurance company‘s own administrative expenses. This offers the potential to pass on these cost
savings to the Insured in the form of lower premium rates. The subject of developing alternative
and cheaper ways to deliver crop insurance to small and medium farmers in southern Kazakhstan
is reviewed further in Section 6.

3.81. Loss adjustment requires the participation of several parties, it is expensive, and
sometimes lacks transparency. In Kazakhstan up to 5 persons are involved in adjusting the crop
losses at the local level and this is a very time consuming and costly exercise. The main
drawback of any Loss of Investment Cost policy is the requirement especially where partial crop
losses are involved, for individual farmer and field by field loss assessment to determine the
damaged area and the remaining amount of harvestable crop (termed salvage) in the field and on
which basis to calculate the expected value of the salvage. It is then necessary to determine

34
  It is understood that in early years of the compulsory crop insurance program that Agent‘s fee s were as
high as 30% of premium, but that the scheme regulators have subsequently imposed a 10% ceiling in order
to make the scheme more acceptable to insurers.


                                                  - 85 -
whether the value of salvage exceeds the costs invested in the crop up to the time of the loss and
also whether it is economic for the farmer to continue to manage the remaining undamaged
portion of the crop through to harvest, or whether these costs will exceed the salvage value. This
is both a time-consuming and costly exercise and is often subject to conflict over whether the
value of salvage exceeds the sum insured investment costs (in which case there would be no
claim) or not, in which case the farmer would receive a claim according to the amount by which
the expected value of salvage falls short of the insured costs of production.

3.82. Crop output valuation prices are determined at the time of harvest as opposed to being
pre-agreed and specified in the policy wording and this section has shown that because actual
farm-gate wheat prices can vary widely according to demand and supply, this leads to major
variations in the amount of physical crop production and yield which is required to cover the
insured costs of production. This situation where neither the farmer nor the insurer can quantify
their indemnity exposures (in terms of the amount of crop production and yield loss which needs
to occur before an indemnity is paid) is very unsatisfactory and needs to be reviewed.

Institutional

3.83. The Kazakhstan compulsory Crop Insurance scheme represents a public-private
partnership which is highly regulated by government and underwritten by the private commercial
(and mutual) insurance sectors, with financial claims subsidy support provided by government
through the FFSA. The regulatory, operational and financial roles assumed by GRK include : (i)
to approve the standard Loss of Investment Cost policy for crop insurance including the basis of
coverage and insured perils and other policy terms and conditions; (ii) to approve each year the
sums insured based on the normative costs of production of the crops that are subject to
compulsory insurance; (iii) to develop the minimum and maximum commercial premium rates to
be used for the different crops and regions under the crop insurance scheme; (iv) to approve the
budget uses for supporting crop insurance; (vi) to establish and regulate the commissions payable
to sales agents, (vii) to set the norms and procedures for the adjustment of crop losses at the
individual insured farmer and field level and finally (viii) to provide financial subsidy support
both through contributions to the A&O costs of the FFSA and in the form of a 50% share in the
value of paid claims. In most countries where governments support agricultural insurance PPP‘s
they usually assume a much lesser degree of operational and underwriting control and their main
function is to provide legal and regulatory support and financial subsidies.

3.84. At the inception of the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme in 2005 seven private
insurance companies registered their interest in underwriting this product, but on account of
poor underwriting results only three companies continue to support the scheme in 2010 . The
level of participation of the private insurance companies in crop insurance in Kazakhstan is very
low. Only 7 out of 37 private non-life insurance companies in the market are currently licensed
to operate crop insurance in the country and only three of them actively underwrote the obligatory
crop insurance scheme in 2010. It is understood that the main reason companies have ceased
underwriting this class of business is because it is deemed unprofitable and that crop insurance is
the least profitable of 10 classes of compulsory insurance in Kazakhstan. There is a danger that
unless the scheme can be returned to profitability the private insurance sector companies may
cease to provide their support in future.

3.85. Due to the lack of interest of the private insurance industry in participating in the
mandatory crop insurance scheme, the GRK decided in 2006 to license Farmers’ Mutual Crop
Insurance Associations to write crop insurance. Under the Law No 163-III ZRK of the
Republic of Kazakhstan on Mutual Insurance dated 5 July 2006, government authorized farmers


                                              - 86 -
to form mutual insurance associations to underwrite the compulsory crop insurance policy. As of
2011, there are more than 38 farmers‘ mutual insurance associations offering crop insurance in
Kazakhstan.

3.86. Private insurance companies and farmer’ mutual associations providing crop
insurance are not equally regulated. While private insurance companies are subject to the
regulation of the Agency for Financial Market and Financial Regulation and Control, the farmers‘
mutual crop insurance associations are regulated separately by the law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan on Mutual Insurance. The Agency for Financial Market and Financial Regulation
and Control exercises a tight control over the insurance activities in the country including crop
insurance. Non-life Private insurance companies are required to have a minimum capital of KZT
1.2 billion (US$ 8.3 million) in order to operate. On top of the minimum capital requirements,
private insurance companies are frequently monitored on their solvency, net retentions, and the
implementation of risk management procedures. Conversely, the farmers‘ mutual associations
offering crop insurance are not regulated and supervised by the Agency for Financial Market and
Financial Regulation and Control. Therefore, farmers‘ mutual associations are not subject to any
minimum capital requirements, or controls over net retentions and solvency requirements. In
fact, currently, an association with more than 250 farmers can constitute a farmer mutual
association to provide crop insurance to its associates without having to establish any capital or
claims reserves. According to the interviews held with farmers‘ mutual insurance associations
during the mission, several mutuals had not collected enough premiums to pay the full amount of
claims incurred during the crop season 2010. Therefore, in order to remain solvent, these mutual
insurers had been forced to reduce the 2010 paid claims on a proportional basis according to the
total amount of premiums they had collected during the year.



Evaluation of Crop Insurance Effectiveness for Key Stakeholders
3.87. This final sub-section briefly summarises the main issues and concerns which face the
three main stakeholder groups which are involved in the Kazakhstan obligatory crop insurance
scheme namely, farmers, insurers and government. (Box 3.2.).

Farmers

3.88. It appears that the compulsory nature of the crop insurance scheme is very unpopular
with many farmers. With very few exceptions farmers who were met during the conduct of this
study expressed their major dissatisfaction that the crop insurance scheme is obligatory. In
response some farmers refuse to purchase crop insurance and they prefer to pay the
accompanying fines. In addition the majority of farmers purchase the minimum permitted level
of normative costs of production protection in order to minimize the costs of their crop insurance
premiums. Although most farmers appear to understand that the very low levels of sum insured
coverage they are purchasing do not afford them with adequate financial risk protection in the
event of a major crop loss, they have such low expectations of the scheme that they would prefer
to purchase minimum cover in the knowledge that they will only receive an indemnity in the
extreme case of near total crop failure. There also appears to be a problem in farmers‘
understanding of the operation of the policy and their dissatisfaction with the cumbersome
indemnity and loss assessment procedures.




                                              - 87 -
Insurance Companies

3.89. In recent years the private insurance companies have lost money underwriting the
obligatory crop insurance scheme and they have increasing withdrawn from underwriting this
class of business. Originally seven insurance companies signed up their interest to support the
obligatory crop insurance scheme, but on account of severe financial underwriting losses, today
most companies have ceased to support the scheme and only three companies are still actively
underwriting the scheme. The insurance industry‘s main concerns are that because of the
compulsory nature of the scheme they can only exert very limited control over individual risk
selection and underwriting: they therefore lack any incentives to invest in crop underwriting and
claims management staff and operating systems and procedures. In particular the insurance
companies are concerned about their exposures in western Kazakhstan where they have incurred
major losses over the past 6 years. In spite of government financial support in the form of 50%
share on all claims, the insurance companies face major financial exposures because they are
unable to access commercial quota share and or non-proportional reinsurance to cap/limit their
liability to loss.

3.90. The private commercial insurers are concerned what they perceive to be unfair
competition from the Farmer Mutual Crop Insurance Associations. The private insurers are
concerned that the mutual insurers are not subject to insurance regulations and they do not need to
maintain minimum capital or claims reserves. Insurers also noted that the mutuals were not
subject to the minimum crop insurance premium rates and that they therefore faced unfair
competition whereby the mutuals under-cut their rates. Finally the insurers expressed their
concerns over the reputational risks the insurance industry faced if the mutuals were not able to
meet their claims liabilities as occurred in 2010.

Government

3.91. The Kazakhstan compulsory crop insurance scheme was launched with very well
intentioned social objectives, but it appears that it is failing to achieve its financial and
institutional objectives. The program was originally conceived as a mechanism to ensure that all
farm workers and small peasant farmers would receive a minimum indemnity in the event of crop
failure due to drought or other natural and climatic perils. The obligatory nature of the scheme
was intended to be a short-term measure which would enable the insurance sector to develop a
sound and stable crop insurance market based on a PPP between private and public sectors, while
at the same time providing time to educate farmers in the benefits of crop insurance so that they
would continue to purchase cover once the scheme was made voluntary. After 6 years the
scheme has failed to develop a strong crop insurance market and to educate farmers. The fact that
the program is very unpopular with many farmers also suggests it is failing to meet its social
objectives. Finally government faces major uncertainties over its financial exposure to claims.

3.92. In summary the current obligatory crop insurance scheme is failing to meet the
requirements of all three major stakeholders and for these reasons government has request The
World Bank to provide technical support to review the scheme and to identify practical options
for strengthening the scheme in future.




                                              - 88 -
Box 3.2. Key issues facing main stakeholders in the compulsory crop insurance scheme




Source: Authors




                                          - 89 -
Chapter 4: Strategy and Options for Strengthening the Current
                   Crop Insurance Program


4.1.     This section presents a series of options and recommendations on the possible ways to
strengthen and improve the current obligatory national crop insurance scheme for GRK to
consider. These options and recommendations are made on the basis of the detailed diagnostic
technical, institutional, financial and operational review of the obligatory crop insurance scheme
that presented in Section 3, and where relevant, draws on international practice and experience.

4.2.     A phased approach is recommended for strengthening and improving the obligatory
crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan and for gradually converting this into a fully market-
based commercial crop insurance system. Agriculture in Kazakhstan has had to adjust to the
major structural changes that occurred at independence 20 years ago including the switch from
collective and state farming systems to individual Household farms, small to medium sized
Commercial Farms (CFs) and large Production Enterprises (PEs)along with the financial
challenges this brought to individual farmers in terms of the need to invest in crop production
machinery and equipment and to purchase seeds and fertilisers and plant protection chemicals.
Since 2004, GRK, MOA, the insurance companies and other stakeholders (including since 2008,
the farmer mutual crop insurance associations) have invested in the promotion and
implementation of mandatory crop insurance scheme. These investments have laid the
foundations for a national crop insurance scheme and this is a considerable achievement given the
logistical challenges of providing crop insurance to large numbers of often small to medium
farmers who are widely scattered over very large geographical regions. The obligatory crop
insurance scheme has, however, in the past three years suffered major financial losses due to very
severe droughts in parts of Kazakhstan and unless the scheme is reformed and strengthened it is
in danger of failing. It is also recognized that any changes to the existing crop insurance scheme
will need gradually to be introduced and phased in over a three to five year period with the central
aim of moving this program onto a sounder commercial basis and more market oriented approach.

4.3.    Under the recommended phased approach towards a market based national crop
insurance scheme, three major phases and strategy options have been identified on the basis of
this study. The phased approach offers government a sequential set of measures which can be
adopted over the next three to five years to move this program onto a much more sound
commercial footing and which will be capable of attracting international reinsurance support.
The three phases include:

     1. Strengthening of current obligatory insurance scheme and achievement of financial
        stability (short-term, 1-3 years)

     2. Transition towards a market based Crop Insurance System (short-term, 1-3 years)

     3. Transformation of the Obligatory scheme into a National Commercial Crop
        Insurance Pool backed up by International Reinsurance under a suitable public
        private partnership(medium-term, 3-5 years)

4.4.    Within each of these strategic options a series of legal and regulatory, technical,
operation, institutional, financial and reinsurance recommendations are made.




                                              - 90 -
Phase 1: Returning the Obligatory Crop Insurance Scheme to Profitability
and Financial Stability
4.5.   This section sets out a series of short-term measures designed to return the crop
insurance scheme to profitability and to ensure the continued participation of the private
commercial insurers and finally to ensure financial stability of the system.

Legal and Regulatory Considerations

4.6.     Review and Reform of Obligatory Crop Insurance Law. There is a clear need to review
and amend the Obligatory Crop Insurance Law of 2004 to make this more market oriented and to
ensure the viability of the current crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan. International experience
shows that crop insurance is most successful where this is implemented by the private insurance
sector on a strictly commercial basis and that insurance companies should have responsibility for
risk selection and underwriting and for setting their own terms and conditions. Under a public-
private partnership (PPP), agricultural insurance legislation should define the types of public
sector support to agricultural insurance and set the overall framework for agricultural insurance:
an agricultural insurance law should not, however prescribe specific terms and conditions of
cover including sums insured, rates, loss assessment procedures etc and which should be the
responsibility of underwriters.

4.7.     In the short-term, it is recommended that the crop insurance law should be amended to
permit insurance companies to set their own policy terms and conditions and rates and sum
insured levels. Immediate changes in legislation which should be considered include to remove
the minimum and maximum premium rates from the law and to permit the insurance companies
to set their own premium rates for each crop in each Oblast and Rayon. Similarly more flexibility
should be given to insurers over the sum insured they offer to each farmer under the LIC policy.

4.8.     Options for gradually phasing out obligatory crop insurance and replacing this by a
system of voluntary crop insurance need to be addressed by crop insurance policy makers in
Kazakhstan. In Kazakhstan, GRK originally planned that crop insurance would be compulsory
for the first 2 or 3 years only and that once farmers had gained knowledge and experience with
crop insurance that this would be moved onto a voluntary basis. To date, however, the Law has
not been amended to permit voluntary insurance. Some of the major problems associated with
obligatory insurance have been highlighted in Section 3 including farmer‘s dissatisfaction with
crop insurance which some regard as a tax, the fact that farmers in low risk regions who adopt
high levels of risk management practices and technology are currently cross-subsidising those
farmers in the most risk-prone areas and whom arguably should not be producing annual crops
because of the very high frequency and severity of drought and other causes of loss. Equally the
obligatory nature of the program causes major problems for insurers because they are unable to
exercise any form of risk selection and or accumulation control, both functions are keys for
underwriting a commercially viable crop insurance program. As evidenced over the past 6 years,
most private insurers have lost a lot of money writing the obligatory crop insurance scheme and it
is very unlikely that any new companies will register to underwrite this business so long as cover
is obligatory. While government has been very successful in promoting mutual insurers a number
of the organizations have also experienced major losses in 2010 thereby threatening their future
viability. Options for gradually phasing out obligatory crop insurance and replacing this by a
combination of voluntary insurance and crop-credit linked insurance should be explored further
by the various working groups.




                                              - 91 -
4.9.     In the medium term the crop insurance Law should be amended to provide the basis
for a fully market based national crop insurance scheme under an appropriate public-private
partnership. Under this strategic option GRK may wish to consider the establishment of some
form of crop insurance pool drawing on the experience of countries such as Spain, Turkey and
South Korea which operate commercial agricultural insurance pool schemes under strong PPP
relationships. (The potential benefits of coinsurance pools in agriculture are reviewed in this
Section). The current crop insurance law would need to be amended to reflect these changes
under a national pool program.

4.10. Any changes in the crop insurance legislation must consider both the Private
Commercial Insurance sector and the Private Farmers Mutual Crop Insurance Associations.
The previous section has indicated that currently the mutuals are regulated separately from the
private insurance companies under the Law of The Republic of Kazakhstan on Mutual Insurance
dated 07.05.2007. Under this Mutual Act, the farmers‘ mutual crop insurance associations do not
have to meet any minimum capital reserves requirements to cover catastrophe losses, they have
considerable flexibility over the premium rates they charge their members including the ability to
reduce rates or suspend premium payments the following year if they have achieved an
underwriting profit, and they are not legally obliged to settle claims which exceed their collected
premiums. The Insurance Companies are regulated both by the Insurance Act and by the
Obligatory Crop Insurance Law and have to meet minimum capital requirements and to meet
their claims liabilities in full. In order to create a level playing field, it is important that the
Mutuals are brought under the same regulations as the private commercial insurers.

4.11. The Obligatory Crop Insurance Law will need to be reviewed and redrafted to support
the introduction of market-based crop insurance. The Law of 2004 will require significant
modifications and amendments in order to move to a market-based crop insurance system. This
task will need to be conducted by a legal expert with knowledge of international agricultural
insurance legislation. Such an expert should be familiar with the legal and regulatory frameworks
on major PPP agricultural insurance schemes in countries such as Spain and Turkey and which
may have applications to Kazakhstan.

Technical Strengthening of the Loss of Investment Costs Policy Design

4.12. On the assumption that in the short-term government and the insurance sector will
need to continue to offer the uniform Loss of Investment Costs (LIC) Policy, a series of
recommendations are identified for improving and strengthening this product. It is assumed
that there will not be time prior to the 2012 crop insurance season to introduce any new crop
insurance products or programs and therefore the standard LIC policy will continue to be
marketed for all insurance crops. A series of simple practical changes and strengthening in the
LIC policy design are identified in Box 4.1. and these measures are reviewed further below.
There should be time to introduce these amendments to the existing LIC policy for
implementation in the 2012 season starting in May 2012.

4.13. In the short term, even if government elects to maintain LIC crop insurance as an
obligatory class of insurance for farmers, special consideration will need to be given to farmers
located in Aktobe and WKO. The previous section has shown that Aktobe and WKO are so
exposed to drought losses that conventional crop insurance cannot continue be provided to
farmers in these two Oblasts and that alternative solutions need to be considered if the overall
program is to be stabilized and returned to profitability. GRK will therefore need to consider
short-term amendments to the crop insurance law to reflect this situation.



                                              - 92 -
4.14. There is a need to introduce a sales period and final sales cut-off date(s) at least one
month prior to sowing to avoid situations of anti-selection and moral hazard. Currently the
policy is very exposed to anti-selection because the final date for binding cover is 2 weeks after
completion of sowing: farmers can therefore monitor the development of the season and if pre-
existing drought conditions are developing they can purchase the highest level of sum insured
cover in the expectation of receiving a higher indemnity. Most multiple-peril crop insurance
(MPCI) programs introduce final sales cut-off dates for each crop in each region at least one
month prior to the recommended sowing dates. It is recommended that policy makers in
Kazakhstan introduce a similar sales cut-off date on the obligatory crop insurance scheme.

4.15. It is recommended that the cover period should be clearly stated in the Policy wording
and specifically that cover should only incept following germination of the crop and full-stand
establishment (defined as >10 centimeters in height for grasses ( Graminae) and two-leaf stage for
dicotyledons). The reason for this recommendation is to avoid instances of moral hazard whereby
farmers fail to adopt the technical recommended improved seed varieties and sowing densities
and optimal sowing dates etc.

4.16. The Insured Unit for the purposes of loss adjustment should be strengthened.
Currently the Insured Unit (IU) is understood to be the individual ―field‖ of each crop. In
northern Kazakhstan fields may be extremely large (>1,000 Ha) and field boundaries are very
poorly demarcated on the ground and in order to avoid conflict at the time of loss assessment it is
recommended that this definition should be tightened-up. For small farm units of less than 100
hectares, underwriters may wish to consider redefining the IU as ―the sown area of all fields of
the same crop type, gown in the same farm location‖. .

4.17. It is recommended that Crop Insurers should be given greater flexibility to set their
own sum insured levels with each insured according to the Insured’s requirements for cover. It
is recommended that government modify current legislation to permit insurance companies to
negotiate the production cost-based sum insured levels with their clients or in other words to
provide farmers with more choice. It is recognized that if sums insured are significantly
increased this will have implications for premium rating under the current LIC basis of insurance
and indemnity. (See rating section for further discussion).

4.18. Government should amend the Obligatory Law to permit insurance companies to set
their own premium rates for each crop in each zone. Actuarial rating should be introduced to
reflect differences in risk exposures between Rayons in each Oblast and possibly differences in
technology levels and risk exposures between different types of farmer.35 In conjunction with
revisions to the rating procedures, policy makers should study the merits of introducing an
individual farmer bonus-malus system in future: farmers who have not submitted claims in the
past would benefit from a premium discount at renewal, while those farmers who have high
claims would have their premium rates loaded accordingly. Since the FFSA maintains a data
base of claims dating back to scheme inception in 2005 it would be a relatively simple task for the
insurance companies to check which farmers are eligible for a premium rate discount and which
would be subject to a rate increase.


35
   To adjust rates due to local farm-level factors underwriters in Argentina typically select several factors
which influence risk exposures and which are very easy to verify in the event of a claim including: sowing
dates, previous crop, type of tillage, soil type, texture and evidence of water-logging. These factor are duly
elicited in the proposal form and each of them given a score which was then used to adjust premium rates
up or down


                                                    - 93 -
4.19. For the purposes of valuing actual revenue in cases of partial crop losses, it is
recommended that a pre-agreed unit value be specified in the Policy Wording at the time of
contracting insurance. The reason for this proposal is to overcome the drawbacks of the current
scheme where partial losses are value at the current local market price of the crop at the time of
loss: Section 3 highlighted the uncertainty this causes to insurers and government alike because
they cannot assess their financial liability until losses are incurred. It is normal on any MPCI
policy including LIC policies to pre-agree and specify in the policy special conditions the Unit
Insured price which will be used to value crop output and which is usually based on historical
average farm-gate prices for each crop in each zone. Similarly the current system is very unclear
to farmers who do not know how much of their crop production and yield they will have to lose
before the value of salvage falls short of their costs of production invested in growing the crop
thereby opening the policy for a claim. A pre-agreed sales price means that the farmer can
calculate exactly how much yield he needs to lose in order to trigger a claims settlement.
Box 4.1. Recommendations for Strengthening Compulsory LIC Crop Insurance Policy
Item                   Detail
Criteria for           Even if government decide in the short-term to maintain Compulsory crop insurance
Acceptance of Risk /   for all producers special consideration will need to be given to farmers located in
Compulsion of Cover    Aktobe and WKO.
Insured Perils         Maintain current coverage to include loss or damage to crop production due to:
                       adverse weather events‖,
Sales Cut-off date     Introduce a policy sales cut-off date 1st April, or date tba
Cover Period           From the time of crop emergence and full stand establishment (e.g. wheat 10 cm stage
                       in crop) through to completion of the crop harvest.
Insured Unit           Strengthen the definition of the Insured Unit which is currently defined as the
                       ―individual field‖. For small farms of less than 250 Ha consider re-defining the IU as
                       ―the total area of all fields of the same crop grown in the same location or farm‖.
Sum Insured            Government should amend the Obligatory Law to permit Insurance Companies to
                       have the option to establish an agreed sum insured with each farmer according to
                       farmer‘s own circumstances and crop insurance requirements.
Premium Rates          Government should amend the Law to permit insurance companies to set their own
                       premium rates for each crop in each zone. Actuarial rating should be introduced to
                       reflect differences in risk exposures between Rayons in each Oblast and possibly
                       differences in technology and risk exposures between different types of farmer
Bonus Malus System     It is recommended that underwriters introduce a Bonus-Malus system on the
                       compulsory crop insurance scheme. The objectives of the bonus-malus include:
                              Over time to introduce individual farmer experience rating within each
                                 Rayon. Farmers who do not submit claims would be rewarded with reduced
                                 premium rates over time: those farmers who submit frequent claims would be
                                 penalized by higher premium rates to reflect their higher risk exposure.
                              A bonus-malus system should reduce the tendency for farmers to submit
                                 speculative claims notices in the hope of receiving an indemnity to only
                                 those cases where a major insured cause of loss has occurred which is likely
                                 to give rise to a claims settlement. This would reduce the costs of in-field
                                 loss assessment for the Insurance companies.
Basis of Indemnity     In the case of a Partial Loss of area and or yield, the estimation of salvage
and Claims             (harvestable production) from the affected area should continue to be estimated in
Settlement             field immediately prior to harvest. However, the Crop Sale Price which is used to
                       value the salvage should be pre-agreed based on an historical sales price for each crop
                       in each Rayon and stated in the Policy Wording. Where the Value of Salvage (Crop
                       Revenue) falls short of the Investment Costs the shortfall is indemnified.
Source: Authors


                                                 - 94 -
Increasing the Sum Insured levels

4.20. The current Loss of Investment costs policy does not provide adequate levels of
protection to the majority of farmers: in most cases farmers only purchase the cheapest
“nominal costs” coverage which for spring wheat is equivalent to about 10% to 15% only of the
value of the expected crop revenue. If the sum insured coverage levels were to be increased
under this program, this would have implications for all stakeholders. For farmers higher
coverage would mean that the likelihood of their receiving a claims payment would be
significantly increased and also in the event of a claim the indemnity should be adequate to cover
their production costs in full and to ensure they can repay any due credit: the downside would be
that higher premium rates would have to be levied if the coverage levels were increased (See
below for further discussion). For the private insurance companies and mutuals, increased
coverage levels would have to be accompanied by actuarial rate increases and with the increased
sum insured liability it would be essential for the insurers to have a comprehensive reinsurance
protection program in place. For government the higher coverage levels would mean a
correspondingly higher budgetary allocation would need to be made to cover the 50% claims
reimbursements. There is a need carefully to set the sums insured in each Rayon according to: i)
the actual production costs of different types of farmer in each Rayon and ii) the risk exposure in
each rayon. For example a sum insured of KZT 10,000 per hectare can be easily covered in NKO
at a reasonable premium rate, but to provide the same high sum insured in Pavlodar or Aktobe
would require extremely high premium rates.

Revising the Crop Premium Rating Methodology

4.21. There is a need to revise the Oblast-level crop premium rating methodology and to
update the premium rates on an actuarial basis. The 6-year long-term gross loss ratio at end
2010 was 140% (equal to a 70% loss ratio net of the government 50% claims reimbursement),
suggesting that on average the scheme has operated on a break-even basis. The premium rates
were last revised by government in 2008 and since then the scheme results have deteriorated
badly over the past three years during which time the average loss ratio has been 182% (91% net
of the government 50% claims subsidy). In some Oblasts including NKO and Kostanay the
scheme has performed very well, but in others including Aktobe, WKO, and Zhambyl the claims
performance has been very poor and the scheme is now severely under-rated in these Oblasts and
rates require adjusting on an actuarial basis.

4.22. The Law specifies a system of minimum and maximum premium rates per Oblast, but
given the differences in risk exposures and claims experience between rayons it is also
recommended that a Rayon-level rating system is now introduced on the scheme. There are
now up to 6-years of actual claims experience for each crop in each Rayon/ Oblast to permit the
premium rates to be revised and updated on an actuarial basis in each Rayon. A simple actuarial
analysis has been conducted on the 6-year actual premiums and claims at Rayon and Oblast level
to examine the rate changes that would be required to achieve a target loss ratio of 60% (after
application of the government 50% claims subsidies) on the scheme. The results of this analysis
at Oblast-level are summarized below and the full results are presented by Rayon in Annex 4. The
analysis shows that 6-year actual results at the Oblast-level indicates that on average the current
premium rates are adequate to generate a 60% loss ratio net of the government 50% claims
reimbursement in Akmola, Kostanay, Kyslorda and NKO (Caution should be exercised in
interpreting the calculated rates in Kyslorda because very little business has been underwritten in
this Oblast to date and the results may not be representative of the real patter of claims).
However, in order to achieve a 60% target loss ratio very significant rate increases would be
required in Aktobe (average premium rate increased from 5.8% to 18.5%) and in WKO (average


                                              - 95 -
premium rate increase from 7.8% to 33.0%) and in Zhambyl (rate increase from 3.5% to 12.1%).
Smaller actuarial rate increases are also required in EKO and Pavlodar in order to achieve a net
loss ratio of 60% after government 50% claims subsidy. (Table 4.1 and Figure 4.1).

Table 4.1: Adjustments in Average Oblast-level Premium Rates to achieve an average 60%
target Loss Ratio
                                                                 Adjusted Gross         Adjusted Net
                              6-year Actual       6 Year
                                                               Premium Rate for      Premium Rate 60%           Implied
                                 Average       Average Loss
  Oblast                                                        60% Target Loss       Target Loss Ratio     Percentage Rate
                              Premium Rate      Cost (2005-
                                                               Ratio (before FFSA        (after FFSA        change required
                               (2005-2010)         2010)
                                                                  intervention )        intervention)
 Akmola                              1.9%          2.0%               3.38%                 1.69%                 -13%
 Aktobe                              5.8%         22.2%              36.97%                 18.48%                217%
 Almaty                              3.5%          4.6%               7.64%                 3.82%                 10%
 EKO                                 3.4%          6.0%               9.96%                 4.98%                 47%
 Karaganda                           4.7%          4.7%               7.86%                 3.93%                 -16%
 Kostanay                            1.7%          1.3%               2.10%                 1.05%                 -40%
 Kysylorda                           5.2%          0.1%               0.15%                 0.08%                 -99%
 NKO                                 2.0%          0.5%               0.79%                 0.40%                 -80%
 Pavlodar                            3.6%          7.1%              11.81%                 5.90%                 66%
 SKO                                 2.7%          0.8%               1.34%                 0.67%                 -75%
 WKO                                 7.8%         39.6%              65.94%                 32.97%                323%
 Zhambyl                             3.5%         14.6%              24.27%                 12.14%                243%
 Total                               2.4%          3.4%              5.65%                  2.82%                 17%
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA 6-years crop insurance results 2005-2010

Figure 4.1. Comparison of Oblast-level average crop insurance premium rates with
premium rates required to achieve 60% loss ratio (net of government 50% claims subsidies)

                            35.00%
                            30.00%
         Premium Rate (%)




                            25.00%
                            20.00%
                            15.00%
                            10.00%
                             5.00%
                             0.00%



                               Actual Average Premium Rate
                               Adjusted Premium Rate 60% Target Loss Ratio (with government 50% claims subsidy)

Source: Authors analysis of FFSA 6-years crop insurance results 20005-2010




                                                                   - 96 -
4.23. Scheme managers should also examine the merits of introducing a Bonus-Malus
System to adjust the premium rates charged to individual farmers according to their own
individual claims experience for each crop over the past 6 years. Since the obligatory crop
insurance system has been in operation for 6 years it would also be possible in future to introduce
a Bonus-Malus system for adjusting individual farmer‘s premium rates according to their own
claims experience over time: low claimants would benefit from lowered premium rates, high
claimants would be penalized through higher rates. The bonus-malus system can also be effective
in reducing unnecessary loss assessment expenses for insurers36. The Crop Insurance Law would
need amending to permit the introduction of a bonus-malus system.

4.24. If in future farmers elect higher sum insured levels under the salvage-based Loss of
Investment Cost Policy this will have important implications for rating. Under the LIC Policy if
a farmer elects to insure a higher level of production costs this directly increases the threshold or
break-even yield for a given sale price of the crop. The risk of incurring an insured loss also
increases with higher levels of insured or break-even yield and this means that higher premium
rates would have to be applied at higher sum insured levels. Under the current rating system the
setting of maximum and minimum rates for each crop in each Oblast may in part reflect the range
of sum insured levels from the low technology/minimum costs of production basis through to the
much higher costs associated with the scientific technology package. However, the only
systematic way of calculating the rate increases that would need to accompany higher sums
insured is through an analysis of yield variation at Rayon and preferably individual farmer levels.
Such an analysis cannot be conducted on the past 6-years claims experience.

Measures to Improve Scheme Profitability

4.25. The 6-year results show that the financial viability of the crop insurance scheme is
being severely prejudiced by the inclusion of Aktobe and WKO Oblasts and those options for
these two Oblasts must be considered now if the scheme is to return to profitability. Section 3
showed that over the past 6 years Aktobe and WKO in western Kazakhstan have collectively
accounted for only 4.8% of total scheme liability, but have contributed 41% of total claims and
respectively have 6-year long-term loss ratios of 381% and 507%. These two Oblasts are
severely affecting the financial viability of the whole of the national crop insurance program and
measures of controlling the claims costs in these two Oblasts must urgently be introduced.
Options presented below include: (i) increasing government‘s share of claims subsidies from 50%
to 75% or even 100% in WKO and Aktobe and (ii) removing these 2 Oblasts from the Crop
Insurance scheme and establishing a separate government compensation mechanism for farmers
in these 2 Oblasts.

As If Analysis With and Without Aktobe and WKO

4.26. An “As If” analysis of the 6-year results shows that the actual long term loss ratio
would be reduced from 140% to 96% with the elimination of Aktobe and WKO and that
following the government’s 50% participation in claims the program would have generated

36
   The bonus malus system can be also implemented to reduce the number of false claims declarations and
to reduce the costs of unnecessary loss assessment visits. In Brazil, Allianca do Brasil has successfully
implemented a bonus malus system to avoid this problem. Farmers automatically lose a 5% bonus at the
renewal of the policy if they submit a loss notice on their policy (this is regardless of whether or not the
loss qualifies for a claims settlement). Claims personnel must be trained to explain this to the insured




                                                  - 97 -
sound underwriting profits for the insurance industry. If Aktobe and WKO had not been
included in the scheme since 2005, this would have led to a reduction in total premium earnings
of 13% only, but would have led to a huge saving in claims costs for insurers of 40% of actual
claims (or a reduction in claims of KZT 3.3 billion – US$ 22.0 million) and a reduction in the 6-
year long-term loss ratio from 140% to 96%. Following application of the government 50%
reimbursement of claims the As If loss ratio for the insurance would have been reduced to about
48% (Table 4.2). Reference to Figure 4.2 shows that if Aktobe and WKO had not been included
in the scheme, the performance of the scheme as measured by the reduction in the annual loss
ratio would have been significantly improved in 2005 (loss ratio reduced from 119% to 71%), in
2009 (loss ratio reduced from 131% to 46%) and finally in 2010 (loss ratio halved from 261% to
136%). Notably in 2008 the As If loss ratio would have slightly increased from 156% to 180%
because in this year the actual claims in Aktobe and WKO were very low. These two Oblasts (in
common with much of the northern and central regions of Kazakhstan) were traditionally
livestock grazing regions which were converted to cereal (mainly spring wheat) production,
during Soviet times. The underlying problem, however, in most of Aktobe and WKO Oblasts is
that soils are mostly poor, average annual rainfall is very low and in a normal year is barely
adequate for growing spring wheat in most of the rayons located in these two Oblasts. As such
these are very marginal Oblasts for spring wheat crop production and no matter how a crop
insurance policy is structured in these two Oblasts, it will always be very heavily exposed to loss
and the technical and commercial premium rates that would have to be charged would be so high
(an average commercial rate prior to application of government claims subsidies of between 37%
Aktobe and 66% WKO) as to make the scheme commercially unviable in these two Oblasts.
There are, however, a few areas in these Oblasts where spring wheat production is more stable
and where crop insurance might possibly be considered in future, albeit at very high rates,
including Taskalisky and Kaztalisky Rayons located in the south west of WKO and Karagaly and
Martuk Rayons in northern Aktobe Oblast

Table 4.2. Comparison of Crop Insurance Accumulated 6-Year Results With and Without
Aktobe and SKO (2005-2010)
            Item                 Whole Portfolio            Modified Portfolio     Percent
                               (With Aktobe/WKO)          (Without Aktobe/WKO)    Reduction
 No. of Policies                     140,961                      134,193           -5%
 Total Insured Area (Ha)           73,770,915                    69,453,803         -6%
 Sum Insured ('000 TH)             242,631,438                   231,048,598        -5%
 Premiums ('000 TH)                 5,861,958                     5,102,670         -13%
 Average Premium Rate %                2%                            2%             -9%
 Claim payments ('000 TH)           8,222,776                     4,910,314         -40%
 Loss Ratio %                        140%                           96%             -31%
 Loss cost %                         3.39%                         2.13%            -37%
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA crop insurance data 2005-2010




                                                 - 98 -
Figure 4.2. Comparison of Annual Loss Ratio (%) with and without Aktobe and WKO
                  300%
                                                                                      261%
                  250%

                  200%                                              180%
   Loss Ratio %



                                                                 156%
                  150%                                                      131%         136%
                         119%

                  100%      71%       70% 68%     70% 65%
                                                                                46%
                  50%

                   0%
                          2005          2006          2007         2008       2009     2010

                                  WITH Aktobe / WKO          WITHOUT Aktobe / WKO

Source: Authors analysis of FFSA crop insurance data 2005-2010



Future Options for Aktobe and WKO

4.27. The first option which is being examined by the insurance companies is to continue
underwriting the LIC scheme in Aktobe and WKO on the understanding that GRK will agree to
reimburse these insurers for a higher percentage of claims in these two Oblasts. Currently
government reimburses insurers for 50% of the value of all paid claims. Under this option, GRK
would agree to indemnify a higher percentage of claims incurred in Aktobe and WKO only:
according to the insurance industry they have already requested government to consider raising
their share to 70% or 75% of total claims in these 2 Oblasts in 2012. Under the current study the
additional costs to government of financing i) 75% and ii) 100% of claims in Aktobe and WKO
have been calculated based on an analysis of the past 6-year actual claims and the assumption that
government reimburses exactly 50% of all claims in the other Oblasts. Over the past 6 years,
government‘s 50% contribution to claims costs would have amounted to GTZ 4.1 billion or an
annual average of KZT 0.685 billion per year. If Government agreed to increase their share of
claims in Aktobe and WKO, the As If annual cost to government would increase to i) Option A
75% claims share in Aktobe and WKO: KZT 0.823 billion per year or an increase of 20% and ii)
Option B 100% claims share in Aktobe and WKO: KZT 0.961 billion per year or an increase of
40% (this latter 100% claims subsidy option shows the maximum expected costs to government if
it wishes to continue including Aktobe and WKO in the LIC scheme and assuming the insurance
companies act purely as administrators in these 2 Oblasts, but do not accept any claims liability:
the ―As if‖ 100% claims cost to government in these 2 Oblasts would be an average of about KZT
550 million or US$ 3.7 million per year). (Table 4.3). While this option may provide government
a short-term solution to retaining the support and underwriting capacity of the insurance industry
and in increasing the profitability of the program after the government‘s incr eased claims
reimbursements, in the medium to long-term this does not tackle the fundamental issue that
commercial spring wheat crop insurance is not financially viable in most of the rayons located in
Aktobe and WKO Oblasts.




                                                        - 99 -
Table 4.3. Comparison of Budgetary implications to Government of increasing the claims
compensation level from 50% to 75% and 100% of claims in Aktobe and WKO (KZT '000)
                                              Option A. As If                Option B. As If
                                                  Cost to                        Cost to
             Total Paid      Government
                                             Government with        %       Government with        %
  Year        Claims          50% share
                                               share of 75%      increase    share of 100%      increase
                                claims
                                             claims in Aktobe               claims in Aktobe
                                                 and WKO                        and WKO
  2005        1,064,870        532,435            656,273          23%          780,110           47%
  2006         477,670         238,835            244,427          2%           250,018           5%
  2007         700,538         350,269            377,709          8%           405,149           16%
  2008        1,709,623        854,812            869,927          2%           885,042           4%
  2009        1,465,129        732,565            996,650          36%         1,260,735          72%
  2010        2,804,945       1,402,473          1,794,519         28%         2,186,565          56%
  Total       8,222,776       4,111,388          4,939,504        20%          5,767,619          40%
 Average      1,370,463        685,231            823,251          20%          961,270           40%
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA crop insurance data 2005-2010
Notes: * This analysis is based on the assumption that government‘s share of total paid claims is exactly
50%. Reference to Section 3, shows that over the past 6 years government‘s share has been slightly lower
at 47% of total claims.

4.28. The second option for government to consider would be to take Aktobe and WKO out
of the crop insurance scheme altogether and to establish a separate disaster relief scheme for
producers of annual crops in these 2 Oblasts. The argument for taking Aktobe and WKO
altogether out of the scheme centre on: i) these are very marginal rainfall areas for growing
annual grain crops and ii) from a crop insurance viewpoint these areas are effectively uninsurable
with 6 year long-term loss costs of 22% and 40% respectively and catastrophe losses every other
years with loss ratios as high as 1000% in major drought years. It is therefore necessary for
government to consider whether to continue to promote annual crops in these Oblasts and to use a
separate disaster relief fund to compensate farmers in severe drought years. The cost of this
program for Aktobe and WKO assuming the same 100% original claims costs and compensation
levels as under the current scheme would average about KZT 550 million (US$ 3.7 million) per
year and with a peak of about KZT 1.6 billion (US$ 10.7 million) in a very severe drought year
such as 2010.

Strengthening the Scheme‟s Operating Systems and Procedures

4.29. In conjunction with the design changes identified to strengthen the LIC policy, there are a
series of potential measures scheme administration should consider in order to improve
underwriting and claims operating systems and procedures and to reduce the costs of these
operations. Box 4.2 summarises some of the key identified operational areas which require
strengthening.

4.30. Loss notification procedures are cumbersome and require the Insured to obtain a
weather report from the nearest meteorological station to validate that an insured event has
occurred. While an event report might be used to prove that a specific event peril such as excess
rain leading to flooding or frost has occurred (but not hail as this is usually very localised), such a
report is usually irrelevant in the case of a progressive peril such as drought and which is the
major cause of loss in Kazakhstan accounting for more than 95% of claims. It is recommended
that the loss notification procedure must be continued but that the requirement for the insured to


                                                - 100 -
submit a meteorological report be dropped in future (This will require an amendment to the crop
insurance Law). The introduction of a Bonus-Malus system is also recommended to reduce the
propensity of farmers to declare small frictional losses and to only declare major losses which are
likely to give rise to a claims settlement: this measure should hopefully reduce the number of in
in-field loss assessment exercises that need to be conducted and lead to cost savings.

4.31. There is a need to review the in-field loss assessment procedures on the obligatory crop
insurance scheme with a view to streamlining this activity and making it more cost-effective.
Currently the Law stipulates that once a loss has been notified by the Insured Farmer,
representatives from 5 organisations must form a committee to assess the loss in-field. This
committee comprises 1 representative from the: local administration, FFSA, local Agent, Insurer
and finally the Insured farmer. Each party is responsible for covering their own costs of attending
and assessing the loss and the process is very time consuming and costly. Furthermore the
process is weighted against the Insurer. In most countries, loss assessment functions are carried
out exclusively by the Insurer‘s own trained loss assessors or by a third party qualified loss
adjuster and the farmer attends the loss assessment exercise. No other parties are required in the
in-field loss assessment procedure. The loss assessor adopts standardized procedures for
estimating the amount of yield reduction or loss and the farmer is required to approve or refute
the assessed loss, in which case a second assessment will be made and if the Insured is still not
satisfied with the outcome of the loss assessment, he is entitled to request this passes to
arbitration. It is recommended that in Kazakhstan scheme management review the in-field loss
assessment procedures and reduce the number of persons required to attend the loss assessment.
In some countries, crop loss assessment functions are contracted out to specialist companies of
loss adjusters. Although Kazakhstan does have certified and approved companies of loss
adjusters, at present none of them specialize in crop loss assessment, but in the medium term
options for creating such specialist entities should be explored.

4.32. In future it may be possible to use remote sensing as an aid to the crop loss assessment
process. The NSA has a very well developed remote sensing capability to provide crop
monitoring at a resolution of the ―individual field‖ in northern Kazakhstan where field size tends
to be much larger than in the south. There are many potential applications of the NSA‘s crop
monitoring services to the existing crop insurance scheme, especially in the area of yield
determination at the farm level. Going forward it is recommended that crop insurance scheme
management should meet with the NSA to review potential remote sensing services that could be
provided to monitoring major loss events on this scheme.

4.33. It is also recommended that a review of policy marketing and distribution channels be
conducted with a view to seeking to reduce administrative costs. Currently most policy
promotion and sales is handled by individual sales agents in each Oblast and Rayon, but
potentially costs be used if these functions were channeled through rural aggregators such as
farmer cooperatives, input dealers and rural banks, including MFIs.

4.34. It would appear that there is a need to accompany improvements in the crop insurance
policy design and scheme implementation with a much higher level of farmer awareness and
education and training programs on the role of crop insurance. Currently it appears that there
is both a lack of understanding on the part of many farmers on how the LIC policy works and also
a very high level of skepticism of the benefits of crop insurance. In parallel to the improvements
in policy design and rating and operational procedures it is recommended that government
provides support to the commercial insurance companies and mutual insurers to conduct crop
insurance education and training programs.



                                             - 101 -
Box 4.2. Options for streamlining and reducing the costs of policy marketing, pre-
inspections and loss assessment systems and procedures
Requirement                Detail
Pre-Inspections need to      Since the scheme is compulsory this should reduce potential anti-
be introduced                    section and moral hazard which are often associated with multiple-peril
                                 crop insurance schemes.
                             Currently few of the insurance companies have regional networks of
                                 trained field agronomists to conduct pre-inspections and loss
                                 assessment and this task is likely to be prohibitively costly on small
                                 farm units.
                             A system of sample pre-inspections should be considered for the large
                                 farms in northern Kazakhstan
Loss Notification and        The Law currently stipulates that 5 individuals (organizations) must be
Loss Assessment                  involved in field-level loss assessment and this is a very costly exercise
Procedures need to be            for each party and requires revision. The loss assessment committee is
streamlined and made             comprised of 5 representatives from the: local administration, FFSA,
more cost-effective              local Agent, Insurance Company and finally the Insured. The
                                 composition of this committee is weighted against the Insurer.
                             In most countries, loss assessment functions are carried out exclusively
                                 by the Insurer‘s own trained loss assessors or by a third party qualified
                                 loss adjuster and the farmer attends the loss assessment exercise. The
                                 loss assessor adopts standardized procedures for estimating the amount
                                 of yield reduction or loss and the farmer is required to approve or refute
                                 the assessed loss, in which case a second assessment will be made. No
                                 other parties are required.
                             In Kazakhstan farmers are required by law to obtain a meteorological
                                 report from the nearest meteorological weather station to prove an
                                 insured event has occurred. This requirement does not seem relevant in
                                 the case of drought (which accounts for 95% of all losses to date) which
                                 is a progressive peril as opposed to being a specific event. It is
                                 recommended that this requirement is discontinued. Farmers should,
                                 however be required to continue to submit a loss notification report to
                                 the insurer within a specified period e.g. 48 hours for specific events
                                 (e.g. hail, flood, autumn frost) and also to notify drought losses when
                                 these become apparent.
                             A Bonus-Malus system should be introduced to dissuade farmers from
                                 submitting claims save where a major loss has occurred and which is
                                 likely to lead to an indemnity.
Use of Remote Sensing to   The NSA is already involved in applications of remote sensing to estimate
support in-field loss      crop sown area and production and yield estimates for the MOA and to
assessment                 monitor crop status during the growing season. It is recommended that the
                           crop insurance scheme managers should review potential supporting roles by
                           the NSA at the time of loss assessment.
Review Policy Marketing    Currently most policy sales are made through local Agents located in each
and Distribution           Oblast and sub-region. The Agents are currently paid 10% brokerage by law.
Channels with a view to    Alternative crop insurance marketing and distribution channels should be
reducing costs             promoted in order to reduce costs including sales though cooperatives and
                           farmer associations, input dealers, rural banks, grain merchants, etc.
Farmer Education and       In conjunction with the proposed improvements in operating systems and
Training Programs on       procedures, greater emphasis needs to be paid on farmer education and
Crop Insurance             training programs about the basis of insurance and indemnity on the current
                           LIC program
Source: Authors 2011




                                               - 102 -
Institutional Strengthening

4.35. In the short term there is a major challenge to find ways of encouraging more private
commercial insurance companies to support the crop insurance scheme. Several measures
have been identified in this section which will hopefully be attractive to local insurers including
i) the introduction of actuarially determined premium rates , ii) the measures to reduce insurers‘
liability in Aktobe and WKO and iii) recommendations for strengthening loss assessment
procedures and for giving insurers more direct control over this important function. However, in
the medium term it is also probable that Insurers will insist of being given greater control over
risk selection and underwriting function if they are to join the scheme. There is also a need to
create a level playing field for commercial insurers and the farmer mutual insurance
associations. Mutual insurance associations should in future be regulated under the Agency for
Financial Market and Financial Institutions Regulation and Control and be required to follow the
same guidelines in terms of the capital requirements and in terms of constitution of insurance
reserves as per the commercial insurers. Failure to do so creates biased competition and the
possibilities for the mutuals to fail to meet their financial obligations.

Financial and Reinsurance Considerations

4.36. Crop insurance companies in Kazakhstan are very exposed to Catastrophe losses on
their retentions and options for enhanced reinsurance protection need to be considered. GRK
currently provides free of cost proportional reinsurance protection equal to 50% of the claims to
the private insurance companies and mutuals in Kazakhstan. Currently, however, neither the
private insurers nor the mutuals have any reinsurance protection on their 50% retentions and they
are therefore very exposed to major systemic drought losses. In the case of the private insurance
companies their ability to absorb and settle catastrophe losses is much higher than the mutuals
because of their much larger size, formal requirements for capital and claims reserves and their
diversified non-life insurance portfolios under which crop insurance only represents a very small
fraction of their overall premium earnings and overall liability. However, there is still a need to
design affordable reinsurance protection for the private companies on their 50% retentions
through some form of Stop Loss Reinsurance protection (See Figure 4.3 with illustration of
current GRK 50% quota share reinsurance protection and an alternative Non Proportional Stop
loss reinsurance protection structure).

4.37. The Farmer Mutual Crop Insurance Associations are very exposed to losses which
exceed their members premium contributions and ways of capping their exposure to
catastrophe losses through some form on non-proportional or stop loss reinsurance protection
need to be developed. The mutuals are usually small, do not have reserves and only underwrite
crop insurance business: they have to settle claims out of the net premiums they receive from
their members (these net premiums are typically in the order of 70% to 75% of gross premium
after payment of acquisition costs and the mutual‘s own administration and operating expenses)
and in any years where the actual claims exceed the average they are unlikely to be able to meet
their liabilities in full. If the mutuals are to form a financially stable and viable alternative to
private commercial crop insurance in future, it will be essential to put in place a formal risk
layering and proportional and or non-proportional risk transfer (reinsurance) program for the
mutuals in order to cap their losses at somewhere between 70% to 100% of their premiums 37.



37
  In insurance terms this is referred to as Gross Net Premium Income (GNPI) which is the original gross
premium the company has earned net of any policy cancellations and returns of premium.


                                                 - 103 -
Figure 4.3. Comparison of Proportional (Quota Share) and Non-Proportional (Stop Loss)
Reinsurance Treaty Structures

Proportional Quota Share                                                                 Non Proportional Stop Loss
                                                                       Loss Ratio =
       50% Insurance Company Retention




                                         50% Government Reinsurance
                                                                                           Stop Loss Reinsurance Layer




                                                                      Loss Ratio =100%




                                                                                            Insurer Primary Retention




                                                                       Loss Ratio =0%

Source: Authors

4.38. In the short-term it is unlikely that the Kazakhstan obligatory crop insurance scheme
will be able to meet the standards required by international reinsurers to attract their capacity
and therefore any non-proportional reinsurance solutions will probably have to be provided by
GRK. To date GRK has paid out a total of KZT 3.8 billion in 50% quota share reinsured claims
or an average of KZT 630 million per year to the crop insurers. This section briefly reviews
whether it is may be more cost effective for the government to use this funding to support an
excess of loss program and or to also finance premium subsidies.

Simple Burning Cost Analysis for Government Excess of Loss Claims Cover

4.39. An as if analysis has been carried out on the 6-year actual claims under the
assumption that instead of providing 50% quota share reinsurance protection, government
would provide aggregate non-proportional excess of loss claims compensation for the crop
insurance industry. This analysis assumes that if government had not provided free 50%
proportional claims compensation over the past 6n years, the insurers would have had to double
the premium rates they charged on this scheme to cover their 100% claims liability. Therefore
the actual 6-year annual average premiums have been doubled to represent the original gross
premiums the insured would have had to have charged. Two As If Claims scenarios are analysed:
1) Insurers retain claims up to 100% of the value of the original gross premiums (i.e. up to 100%
loss ratio), and government provides unlimited protection for any losses excess of 100% of gross
net premium income (GNPI) and 2) in recognition that insurers have to pay business acquisition
costs (brokerage) and administration and operating costs charges out of their original gross
premium thereby reducing the premium they retain to cover claims, the government claims



                                                                         - 104 -
compensation program cuts in for any losses excess 70% of GNPI. A further assumption is that
initially government excess of loss claims protection would be provided free of charge to the
insurers. Finally the As If analysis has been carried out with and without Aktobe and WKO. The
main caveat of this analysis is that the government excess of loss compensation cover can only be
analysed on an annual aggregate industry-level basis and not by individual private commercial
insurance company or farmers‘ mutual crop insurance association – in practice individual
companies underwrite different portfolios in different regions of the country and would incur
different premium to claims ratios and the claims to the government stop loss program would
inevitably be higher than can be modelled under this simple As If analysis applied to the
historical claims.

4.40. The results of this simple As If analysis are presented in Table 4.4 and show that with
Aktobe and WKO included the government funded Aggregate Industry Excess of Loss
Compensation with a priority of 100% of GNPI would have incurred one claim only in the 6-
year period of KZT 0.66 billion in 2010 (average of 110 million per year) and with the reduced
70% of GNPI priority, two claims a small one in 2008 and then again in 2010 with total stop
loss claims of KZT 1.5 billion (average of 347 million per year). If Aktobe and WKO had been
excluded, the 100% of premium ―aggregate‖ excess of loss compensation cover would not have
incurred any claims in the past 6 years and with reduced 75% priority only one small claim in
2008 of KZT 0.27 billion. Great caution must, however, be exercised in interpreting this simple
6-year aggregate As If analysis (a) because it is based on only six years data and although it
includes the 2010 losses which was a very severe 1 in 50 drought year and which will bias the
results towards this bad year, even more severe losses could occur say 1 in 100 years and (b) the
aggregate analysis excluding Aktobe and WKO is unrealistic and masks the reality that
individual insurance companies and mutuals would have incurred losses in excess of 100% of
their premium on their own regional crop insurance portfolios over the past 6-years. The analysis
is presented purely to illustrate the option of capping industry losses in catastrophe years through
some form of government catastrophe claims compensation mechanism.

Table 4.4. As If Analysis of Costs to Government of Aggregate Insurance Industry Excess of
Loss Protection and Full Premium Rates charged to farmers (KZT „000)

    A) Including AKTOBE and WKO
            Actual Premium   As If 100% Gross                        As If Cost to    As If Cost to
           (with government Premium (without        Actual Total   Government for    Government for
Year
              50% claims     government 50%         Paid Claims    losses XS 100%    losses XS 70%
             reinsurance)   claims reinsurance)                    Gross Premium     Gross Premium
   2005         898,607          1,797,214           1,064,870             0                0
   2006         684,722           1,369,444           477,670            0                 0
   2007         997,392           1,994,785           700,538            0                 0
   2008        1,093,232          2,186,463          1,709,623           0              179,099
   2009        1,114,366          2,228,732          1,465,129           0                 0
   2010        1,073,639          2,147,278          2,804,945        657,668          1,301,851
Total          5,861,958         11,723,915          8,222,776        657,668          1,480,950
Average         976,993           1,953,986          1,370,463        109,611           246,825


    B) Excluding AKTOBE and WKO
            Actual Premium    As If 100% Gross                       As If Cost to    As If Cost to
                                                    Actual Total
Year       (with government   Premium (without                     Government for    Government for
                                                    Paid Claims
              50% claims      government 50%                       losses XS 100%    losses XS 70%



                                                 - 105 -
               reinsurance)     claims reinsurance)                        Gross Premium     Gross Premium
  2005            801,657            1,603,315            569,520                0                 0
  2006            673,999            1,347,999            455,304                0                 0
  2007            902,616            1,805,232            590,778                0                 0
  2008            916,678            1,833,355            1,649,162              0              365,814
  2009            897,503            1,795,005            408,788                0                 0
  2010            910,218            1,820,435            1,236,762              0                 0
Total           5,102,670            10,205,340           4,910,314              0              365,814
Average           850,445            1,700,890            818,386                0              60,969
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA Insurance data

Indicative Rating for Aggregate Stop Loss Reinsurance protection for the Obligatory LIC
Crop Insurance Scheme (Spring Wheat)

4.41. As an extension of the above simple 6-year As If analysis, some preliminary modelling
has been conducted for spring wheat (which accounts for over 95% of the obligatory crop
insurance portfolio) to estimate the layering and pricing on an Aggregate Stop Loss protection
cover for the existing loss of investment cost scheme. This analysis using simulation techniques
to calculate over 5000 iterations the expected aggregate losses (in terms of loss costs and or loss
ratios) over the entire scheme. The results of the simulation exercise are then used to estimate the
value of claims excess of the specified priorities (in this case 70% and 100% priorities assumed
and full value reinsurance protection is provided excess of these priorities). Appropriate loading
is then added to the calculated technical rates to cover reinsurers‘ costs and profit expectations.
The results of this stop loss rating analysis are presented in Table 4.5. for the 2 priorities and with
and without Aktobe and WKO. While caution must be exercised as this is a preliminary rating
analysis, it is considered robust and suggests that the indicative costs of providing full value (i.e.
up to 100% of TSI) Aggregate stop loss protection excess of 100% and 70% priorities would be
in the order of KZT 0.27 billion to KZT 0.31 billion per year.

Table 4.5. Illustrative Rating Analysis for Aggregate Stop Loss Protection for Obligatory
Loss of Investment Costs Crop Insurance Scheme: Spring Wheat cover only.
 A. With Aktobe and WKO
 Total Sum Insured (KZT Billion) 41.80
                                                                                     Stop Loss Premium
                                          Limit               Priority %
             Option                                 XS.                                        Amount (KZT
                                         (%TSI)                 (TSI)            (%TSI)
                                                                                                 billion)
                                           96.56%   xs                3.44%          0.75%        0.313
 Priority 70% of GNPI
                                           95.09%   xs                4.91%          0.64%        0.266
 Priority 100% of GNPI
 B. Without Aktobe and WKO
 Total Sum Insured (KZT Billion) 39.20
                                                                                     Stop Loss Premium
                                          Limit               Priority %
             Option                                 XS                                         Amount (KZT
                                         (%TSI)                 (TSI)            (%TSI)
                                                                                                 billion)
                                           96.65%   xs                3.35%          0.66%        0.271
 Priority 70% of GNPI
                                           95.22%   Xs                4.78%          0.57%        0.225
 Priority 100% of GNPI
Source: Authors



                                                    - 106 -
Premium Subsidy Considerations

4.42. With the switch from 50% proportional reinsurance to non proportional reinsurance
and the parallel need for insurers to double their premium rates, GRK may also need to
consider whether farmers can afford these rate increases or if it will be necessary to introduce
premium subsidies. In order to illustrate the potential costs of premium subsidies, the above 6-
year analysis has been expended to include both the aggregate industry-level stop loss reinsurance
protection and 50% premium subsidies. Over the past 6 years, government‘s 50% of claims
liability has been an average of 685 million per year, but in severe drought years such as 2010,
government‘s 50% claims share was much higher at KZT 1.4 billion. If Aktobe and WKO had
been excluded from the scheme, government‘s 50% quota share claims reimbursement would
have been reduced to an average of KZT 409 million per year: this compares with the As If
average annual costs to GRK of stop loss protection and 50% premium subsidies of between 850
million and 911 million per year. (Table 4.6.).

Table 4.6. As If Analysis of Costs to Government of Aggregate Insurance Industry Excess
of Loss Compensation scheme and assumed 50% Premium Subsidies (KZT „000)
       A) Including AKTOBE and WKO
             As If 100%                                                                               Total Cost to
                           As If Cost to   As If Cost to                          Total Cost to
           Gross Premium                                       Government                           Government for
                           Government      Government                           Government for
              (without                                         50% Percent                           losses XS 70%
Year                       for losses XS   for losses XS                        losses XS 100%
            government                                           Premium                            Premium + 50%
                           100% Gross       70% Gross                           Premium + 50%
            50% claims                                           Subsidies                              Premium
                             Premium         Premium                           Premium Subsidies
            reinsurance)                                                                                Subsidies
 2005          1,797,214               0                   0      898,607               898,607             898,607
 2006          1,369,444               0                   0      684,722               684,722             684,722
 2007          1,994,785               0                   0      997,392               997,392             997,392
 2008          2,186,463               0        179,099          1,093,232            1,093,232           1,272,331
 2009          2,228,732               0                   0     1,114,366            1,114,366           1,114,366
 2010          2,147,278        657,668       1,301,851          1,073,639            1,731,307           2,375,490
 Total        11,723,915        657,668       1,480,950          5,861,958            6,519,625           7,342,908
Average        1,953,986        109,611         246,825            976,993            1,086,604           1,223,818



       B) Excluding AKTOBE and WKO

             As If 100%    As If Cost to   As If Cost to                                               Total Cost to
                                                                                   Total Cost to
           Gross Premium                                        Government                           Government for
              (without
                           Government      Government           50% Percent
                                                                                 Government for
                                                                                                      losses XS 70%
Year                       for losses XS   for losses XS                         losses XS 100%
            government                                            Premium                            Premium + 50%
                           100% Gross       75% Gross                            Premium + 50%
            50% claims                                            Subsidies                              Premium
                            Premium          Premium                            Premium Subsidies
            reinsurance)                                                                                 Subsidies

 2005          1,603,315               0                   0        801,657               801,657           801,657
 2006          1,347,999               0                   0        673,999               673,999           673,999
 2007          1,805,232               0                   0        902,616               902,616           902,616
 2008          1,833,355               0        365,814             916,678               916,678         1,282,491
 2009          1,795,005               0                   0        897,503               897,503           897,503
 2010          1,820,435               0                   0        910,218               910,218           910,218
 Total        10,205,340               0        365,814            5,102,670            5,102,670         5,468,484
Average        1,700,890               0         60,969              850,445              850,445           911,414



                                                   - 107 -
Source: Authors analysis of FFSA Insurance data

4.43. It is recommended that GRK should study very carefully the issues surrounding
premium subsidies before deciding whether to switch from the current system of claims
subsidies to premium subsidies. The current system whereby government compensates 50% of
the claims costs and then caps premium rates at approximately 50% of the technically required
rates: in some regions of the country current premium rates are above the actuarially required
rates and in other parts of the country actual rates are far too low. On the one hand this results in
distorted crop insurance price signals in the market and on the other hand the 50% claims
compensation does not provide the local insurers with the catastrophe protection on their retained
claims that they require. Finally international reinsurers are not willing to support an under-priced
scheme. While the authors are very cautious about recommending premium subsidies, it would be
preferable in Kazakhstan to have an actuarially rated and commercially priced program and for
government to then decide whether to provide financial support in the form of premium subsidies
and also in the short term in the form of non-proportional stop-loss reinsurance protection and
then in the medium term to promote the participation by international reinsurers.

4.44. In conclusion while further analysis is required to study the options for introducing a
government of Kazakhstan financed non-proportional stop loss reinsurance program for
individual private and mutual insurers, there are major potential benefits of this option of which
the most important would be the guarantee that if a mutual or indeed a private commercial insurer
incurred catastrophe losses in excess of its premium and reserves that government would
indemnify these losses rather than the insurer defaulting on its obligations to farmers. However,
the implications for insurers of moving to a non-proportional reinsurance program would be that
they would have to increase their rates to actuarially determined levels (rates would have to be
roughly doubled on average) and it is likely this move would prove very unpopular with farmers
unless government were to provide premium subsidies. Issues relating to the provision of
premium subsidies are reviewed further at the end of this section.



Phase 2: Transition towards a Market-based Crop Insurance System
4.45. This section explores a set of issues and options for GRK to consider during the
transition over the next few years to a market-based crop insurance system and which centre on
the introduction of individual grower multiple-peril crop insurance MPCI either as a complement
to, or as a substitute for the current Loss of Investment Cost Policy and the introduction of
commercial international reinsurance.

4.46. It is assumed that crop insurance would probably continue to be obligatory for farmers
during this interim phase. This is a decision which GRK will have to review with the local
stakeholders

4.47. The proposals set out in this section for a Spring Wheat MPCI Program assume that
Aktobe and WKO will no longer be included in the crop insurance scheme because this crop
cannot be commercially insured in these two Oblasts and in any of the individual rayons: as
previously noted the drought risk exposure in Aktobe and WKO is so high that it is impossible to
offer crop insurance at commercially acceptable rates. It is intended that farmers in these two
Oblasts are protected by a separate disaster-relief mechanism, but details of this separate program
have not been considered further under this crop insurance feasibility study for Kazakhstan.


                                                  - 108 -
Interim Measures to Crowd-in the Private Commercial Insurance Companies

4.48. Government is keen to study ways of reforming the compulsory crop insurance
program which will encourage greater participation by the private commercial insurers . The
past 6 years have seen an exodus of the private commercial insurers for the Kazakhstan
Obligatory Crop Insurance scheme and if the scheme is to remain viable this tendency must be
halted now. Indeed measures need to be taken to try to crowd-in as many of the private
commercial insurers as possible if the scheme is to diversify its crop insurance product range in
future and to also start offering other classes of agricultural insurance cover including for
livestock, forestry and possibly aquaculture. In the short term it is predicted that if Aktobe and
WKO are excluded from the commercial crop insurance scheme this single amendment will
encourage non-life insurance companies to join up to the crop insurance scheme. It is also
expected that the market oriented measures outlined in this section including introduction of new
crop insurance products, starting with individual grower MPCI and actuarially determined
premium rates and support in the form of premium subsidies and non-proportional reinsurance by
government (and possibly in some cases by international reinsurers), will encourage insurers to
sign up for the crop insurance program.

4.49. In addition measures must be taken to ensure that the Farmers’ Mutual Crop
Insurance Associations are able to continue to remain in the Kazakhstan crop insurance
scheme, but only if they are able to meet their financial liabilities in full. As noted in the
previous section in 2010 some mutual crop insurers were not able to meet their financial liabilities
in full and therefore where claims exceeded their net premiums they were forced to pro rata down
each claimants paid claim. Such actions contravene the purpose of contracting crop insurance
and may rapidly erode farmers‘ confidence in the crop insurance program. Therefore measures
must be sought to ensure that in future suitable excess of loss reinsurance is in place to

Introduction of New Crop Insurance Products and Programs

4.50. There is a need to offer more choice of crop insurance products in order to meet the
risk transfer requirements of different types of producers growing different types of crops
located in different agro-climatic regions of Kazakhstan. For the past 6 years, Kazakhstan has
implemented a single Loss of Investment Costs (LIC) multiple-peril crop insurance policy for
grains, oilseeds, fibres (cotton) and some leguminous and root crops. While the LIC product is
suitable for grains, oil seeds and other field row crops, it is not suitable for most horticultural and
fruit crops and especially for crops which have multiple or staggered harvests. Furthermore the
product is not best suited to irrigated crops. If Kazakhstan is to develop a voluntary crop
insurance market which is demand driven and which meets farmer‘s risk management and risk
transfer needs it will be necessary to start investing in the design and rating of new crop insurance
product types.

4.51. Under this World Bank feasibility study risk assessment and product design and rating
analyses have been conducted to assess the potential for introducing four new crop insurance
product types into Kazakhstan including both traditional indemnity based products and new
index-based products . These product types include: i) Individual grower multiple-peril crop
insurance (MPCI) which is reviewed in this section, and then in Section 5, three products are
covered including ii) traditional Crop-hail insurance, iii) Area-Yield Index-based crop insurance
(AYI) and finally iv) Weather Index-based crop insurance (WII).




                                               - 109 -
Individual Grower Multiple-Peril Crop Insurance for Kazakhstan

Features and Challenges for Introducing MPCI

4.52. There are a number of drawbacks of the Loss of Investment Costs multiple peril yield-
based crop insurance product which Kazakhstan’s insurers have now underwritten for 6 full
years. Although one of the principle attractions of the LIC policy is that it does not require
accurate individual grower yield data, there are also several drawbacks of the product which were
highlighted in Section 3 and centre on: 1) farmer‘s dislike of the product because it does not
provide them with a clearly established loss of yield guarantee they can understand, 2) the fact
that the basis of indemnity is complicated and highly dependent on the prevailing market price for
the crop at the time of loss and 3) the complications of accurately rating this product for different
LIC sum insured levels.

4.53. Given the insurance industry’s experience with underwriting the LIC yield -based
policy for the past 6 years, it would be relatively simple to make the transition from this cover to
a more standardized individual grower Multiple-Peril Crop insurance (MPCI) Policy. The crop
insurers of the LIC policy have over the past 6 years gained considerable experience in
underwriting loss of yield-based multiple crop insurance and in conducting in-field loss
assessment to establish actual yields and the amount of loss. This experience would enable them
relatively easily to design, rate and implement individual grower MPCI.

4.54. The main differences of an individual grower MPCI product to the LIC Policy include
i) the establishment of a pre-agreed Insured Yield at the time of policy subscription (the Insured
Yield is usually calculated as a percentage of the individual farmer‘s historical average or normal
crop yield or the local area average yield), ii) a pre-agreed unit Valuation Price which is applied
to the Insured Yield to calculate the sum insured and iii) loss assessment involves the
measurement of the actual yield which is compared to the Insured Yield and the amount of
shortfall is indemnified accordingly at the pre-agreed valuation price. This basis of insurance and
indemnity which is based on loss of yield is potentially much more transparent and
understandable for farmers and loss assessment is also much more objective as yield loss is
measured rather than expected shortfall in production costs compared to the estimated value of
the remaining crop (salvage revenue).

4.55. The international experience of MPCI is that the product is very popular with farmers,
but on account of the high premiums associated with this product, most schemes are dependent
on government support in the form of premium subsidies. The international literature on MPCI
often highlights the drawbacks encountered under voluntary schemes of anti-selection and moral
hazard, or the difficulties of establishing average farmer yields and corresponding premium rates,
through to high premium costs requiring government support in the form of premium subsidies
and the often very high costs of individual grower in-field loss inspection and loss assessment.
While these arguments are indeed very valid, they apply as equally to the existing Loss of
Investment Cost policy in Kazakhstan. Currently issues of anti-selection are less of a problem
because the scheme is obligatory for all farmers, but because it is a loss of yield multiple peril
scheme it shares the drawbacks of other MPCI schemes.

4.56. In Kazakhstan the main challenge for introducing individual grower MPCI centres on
the procedures for establishing an individual grower “normal average yield” for a given crop
and on which basis to then establish an insured yield as a percentage of the average yield.
With the possible exception of the USA, very few countries maintain accurate time series data-
bases on individual farmer‘s crop production and yields. MPCI is, however, the most popular


                                              - 110 -
crop insurance product with farmers and it is widely underwritten by commercial insurance
companies throughout the world, both in developed and developing countries. In most countries
insurers use regional (county, district etc) historical crop production and yield data to establish an
average yield and to then establish an insured yield or optional insured yields as a percentage of
the regional average yield. Where high levels of insured yield coverage are offered for example
75% or greater of the regional yield this may lead to major anti-section by those farmers whose
average yields are normally below the regional average usually on account of their below average
technology and lower use of inputs. In Kazakhstan, most farmers save for the very big
production enterprises are unlikely to be able to provide their historical individual crop yields by
field and by farm for the past 10 years or more. It is therefore proposed to develop MPCI on the
historical Rayon-level yield data which in the case of spring wheat is available for up to 17 years
and which can be disaggregated by type of farmer into production enterprises and commercial
farmers, if required. In Kazakhstan anti-selection will be less of an issue because in most
instances the maximum Insured Yields that are offered will not exceed 30% to 40% of the Rayon
average yield: only in exceptional cases where average yields are very stable within a Rayon
might 50% coverage be provided.

4.57. In Kazakhstan the methodology adopted by the Statistics Agency for sampling and
recording crop sown and harvest area, production yields at the Rayon-level is considered to be
accurate and to form the basis on which to design either an individual grower MPCI cover and
or AYII, at least in the case of Spring Wheat. Under this study a detailed review has been
conducted in the 8 main grain producing Oblasts of the Rayon-level crop area, production and
yield data for spring wheat for the past 16 years and it has been concluded that this data is
accurate and can form the basis of the design and rating of either an individual grower MPCI
cover or an Area-yield index cover.

4.58. A further challenge is the rating procedures for MPCI cover when individual grower
yield data are not available and rayon-level yield data has to be used. MPCI rating is based on a
statistical analysis of variation in time series yields. The individual grower MPCI rating exercise
for Kazakhstan has been based on 17-years of rayon-level spring wheat annual yields for i)
production enterprises, ii) commercial farmers and iii) the overall rayon yields for both groups of
farmers. The rating methodology involved the cleaning and de-trending of the rayon average
yields and estimation of the average n expected yield for each Rayon based on the average of the
last 5 years yield. Insured yield coverage levels of between 10% and a maximum of 40% of the
rayon level expected yield were then selected and the losses for each coverage level simulated
5000 times to establish the pure loss cost rates. In order to estimate the higher yield variability
between farmers the coefficients of variation around mean yield were increased by a factor of
15%. These were then adjusted to include catastrophe loadings and to derive the technical rates
and then finally the indicative commercial premium rates for a target 60% loss ratio that would
need to be charged to individual spring wheat farmers in each Rayon.



Insured Yields and Sum Insured

4.59. Under an MPCI Policy the sum insured contains two elements, an insured yield and an
agreed unit valuation price. The analysis of variation in 17-year spring wheat yields show these
to be so variable that the maximum insured yields that could be offered to farmers in individual
rayons are no more than about 40% of the Expected Yield. For the purpose of this exercise,
spring wheat has been valued on the basis of the average national wheat prices for the period



                                               - 111 -
2008 to 2010 of KZT 3,120/Centner. It is stressed, however that any unit valuation price could be
used based on the costs of production per center through to the final sales price.

4.60. Under the MPCI Policy there is more flexibility in offering farmers optional coverage
levels according their circumstances and also to offer higher levels of coverage than under the
current LIC Policy. The previous section showed that under the LIC, farmers are electing the
lowest normative cost level of sum insured of about KZT 3,500 /Ha for spring wheat in 2010,
equivalent at the prevailing sale price of wheat to an underlying insured yield of about 1
Centner/Ha or 10% to 15% of the average yield of the crop. One of the major objectives of the
MPCI policy would be to offer farmers the option to purchase higher levels of coverage up to
40% of the expected Rayon yield. An example of the calculation of the insured yield and sum
insured is given in Table 4.7 for spring wheat in Akkol Rayon which has an overall expected
yield of 8.7 Centners/Ha: at the maximum 40% Insured Yield cover level the farmer would have
an insured yield of 3.5 Centners/Ha and at the given unit insured price of KZT 3,120/Centner, his
sum insured would be equivalent to KZT 10,808/Ha. The 40% coverage level would afford the
famer about 3 times the current LIC protection. Conversely in those Rayons where farmers
achieve much higher average spring wheat yields, the insured yield coverage levels and sums
insured area correspondingly higher. The maximum expected yield in any one Rayon is 17.29
centners for commercial producers in Mendikara Rayon, Kostanay Oblast and in this case the
40% coverage yield is equivalent to 6.9 Centners/Ha with a sum insured of KZT 21,578/Ha. The
spring wheat insured yields and sums insured have been calculated separately for Production
Enterprises and Commercial Farmers and overall in all the Rayons and are attached in Annex 4.

Table 4.7. Example of the Calculation of the Sum Insured for an MPCI Policy: Spring
Wheat grown in Akkol Rayon, Akmole Oblast
                                              Production       Commercial
            Item / Type Farmer                                                      Overall
                                              Enterprise         Farmer
                                                 8.9               8.1                8.7
 Expected yield (Centner/Ha)
 Insured Yield Coverage Options
                                                 0.9               0.8                0.9
                  10% Coverage (Centner/Ha)
                                                 1.8               1.6                1.7
                  20% Coverage (Centner/Ha)
                                                 2.7               2.4                2.6
                  30% Coverage (Centner/Ha)
                                                 3.5               3.2                3.5
                  40% Coverage (Centner/Ha)
                                                 4.5               4..0               4.3
                  50% Coverage (Centner/Ha)
                                                3,120             3,120              3,120
 Unit Insured Value (KZT/Centner)
 Sum Insured (KZT/Ha)
                                                2,761             2,515              2,702
                    10% Coverage (KZT/Ha)
                                                5,522             5,029              5,404
                    20% Coverage (KZT/Ha)
                                                8,284             7,544              8,106
                    30% Coverage (KZT/Ha)
                                                11,045           10,059             10,808
                    40% Coverage (KZT/Ha)
                                                13,806           12,574             13,510
                    50% Coverage (KZT/Ha)
Source: Authors

4.61. The Total Sum Insured of the scheme would be increased significantly if these
proposals were adopted and under the assumption that all farmers continue to purchase MPCI
cover. If it is assumed that the individual grower MPCI program continued to be obligatory for


                                              - 112 -
all spring wheat farmers Table 4.8 provides some illustrative estimates of the total sums insured
that would apply across the 6 eligible Oblasts (Aktobe and WKO being eliminated from the
scheme)38. The actual 2010 expiring TSI for the obligatory scheme was KZT 47.3 billion (US$
326 million): under an MPCI program, at 20% coverage level across all Rayons and the average
unit valuation price of KZT 3,120 / center, the TSI would increase to KZT 84.8 billion (US$ 585
million) and at the highest 50% coverage level, the total scheme liability would rise further to
KTZ 212 billion (US$ 1.46 billion). It is important to recognize that with the proposed increases
in sum insured levels and in total scheme liability that the expected claims will also rise and
therefore it is very important to examine the expected losses that might occur (See later section).

Table 4.8. Estimated Total Sum Insured by Oblast for Compulsory MPCI Crop Insurance
scheme according to coverage levels (KZT million)
                                                    Insured Yield Coverage Level
          Oblast
                             10%              20%               30%              40%             50%
 Akmola                         10,985           21,970           32,956           43,941           54,926
 EKO                              1,181           2,361            3,542            4,723            5,904
 Karaganda                        1,346           2,691            4,037            5,383            6,729
 Kostanay                       14,786           29,573           44,359           59,145           73,931
 NKO                            13,216           26,432           39,648           52,864           66,080
 Pavlodar                          910            1,821            2,731            3,641            4,552
 Total                          42,424           84,849          127,273          169,697          212,121
 US$ (million)                     293              585             878            1,170            1,463
Source: Authors based on Statistics Agency Rayon spring wheat production data

MPCI Rating Methodology and Indicative Premium Rates

4.62. The statistical rating methodology used in this study to establish individual grower
MPCI rates conforms to the MPCI rating procedures which are adopted by the insurance
industry. The rating procedures are based on an analysis of variance in the rayon-level 17 year
yields and which have been adjusted to reflect the higher yield variation of disaggregated
individual farmer-level yields in spring wheat by multiplying the coefficient of variation x 1.15.
Full details of the individual grower MPCI rating procedures are contained in Annex 2 and Annex
4.

4.63. The rates presented in this report are indicative commercial premium rates for a 60%
target loss ratio, but it is stressed that final decisions over rates will be taken by insurers and
their reinsurers. The burning cost or pure premium rates were calculated for each insured yield
coverage level and then a very conservative catastrophe or reserve load added to derive the
technical rates for each coverage level from 10% to 50% of expected yield. Finally the technical
rates have been grossed up by 40% to achieve a conservative target loss ratio of 60%. The
indicative commercial rates for spring wheat by Rayon and coverage level are presented in Annex
4 and the MPCI rating tool and MPCI rating data-base can be made available to the key
stakeholders on request. Finally, it is important to note that the final commercial premium rates
derived under this study are high not only because of the underlying yield variability, but also
because of the conservative loadings applied and if this scheme passes to the detailed design and
planning stage there should be room to analyse the actual insurers A&O Costs for example and if

38
  For the purposes of this analysis the average sown area of spring wheat per Rayon for the past 3 years
(2008 to 2010) has been used to establish the TSI in each Rayon and Oblast and in total.


                                                  - 113 -
these are lower than assumed under this study, it would be possible to reduce the 40% gross-up to
a more reasonable level.

4.64. A comparison has been conducted of the average actual premium rates charged on the
obligatory loss of investment cost (LIC) scheme and the new proposed MPCI program
indicative commercial premium rates. The LIC premium rates are in effect subsidized by a
factor of 50% because of the government 50% claims reinsurance program over the past 6 years.
These rates have therefore been doubled to reflect the 6-year average full (100%) commercial
premium rates the insurers would have had to have charged if there had been no government
financial support on claims. The average full rates per Oblast would therefore range from a low
of 3.5% in Kostanay to a high average of 9.4% in Karaganda (Table 4.9). The Rayon-level MPCI
indicative commercial premium rates for spring wheat with 60% target loss ratio for 20%
coverage range from an average low of 3.6% for NKO (and are in fact lower than the existing
LIC average rates in this Oblast), to a high average of 7.1% in Pavlodar Oblast on account of the
much higher yield variability in the Rayons in this Oblast. At the higher 30% insured yield
coverage levels the commercial premium rates in most rayons exceed 8.0%. The one exception is
NKO where 40% coverage could be offered at relatively affordable commercial premium rates of
less than 10%. At the highest 50% insured yield coverage levels the commercial premium rates in
most rayons exceed 15.0%, being in some cases (such as for Karaganda, EKO, and Pavlodar)
above 20% of TSI.

Table 4.9. Comparison of Loss of Investment Cost Scheme Average Rates with New MPCI
Indicative Average Commercial Premium Rates for 60% Target Loss Ratio
             Existing LIC Scheme
                     Rates                   New MPCI Commercial Rates for Spring Wheat
               6-year                                      Insured Yield Coverage Level
              average
  Oblast                 As if 100%
                LIC
                          Full LIC
             Premium
                         Premium         10%              20%         30%           40%     50%
               Rates
                           Rates *
               (50%
               rates)
 Akmola         1.9%        3.9%         1.5%             4.8%        8.9%         13.6%    18.4%
 EKO           3.4%         6.8%         2.5%             6.9%        12.0%        17.3%    22.7%
 Karaganda     4.7%         9.4%         1.8%             5.6%        10.2%        15.2%    20.4%
 Kostanay      1.7%         3.5%         1.4%             4.6%        8.7%         13.2%    17.9%
 NKO           2.0%         4.0%         1.1%             3.6%        6.7%         10.3%    14.1%
 Pavlodar      3.6%         7.1%         2.1%             6.2%        11.1%        16.3%    21.5%
 Total         2.2%         4.4%         1.4%             4.5%        8.3%         12.6%    17.1%
Source: Authors based on FFSA Insurance Data and Statistics Agency Rayon Wheat Yield data
Notes: * As If Full Premium Rates assuming no government 50% claims payment subsidies

4.65. If the scheme continues to be obligatory for all farmers, the estimated total commercial
premium income generated by the individual grower MPCI cover for spring wheat would
increase significantly. Application of the commercial premium rates to the TSI corresponding to
each coverage level indicates that 100% premium for a scheme which insures all eligible spring
wheat grown in the 6 Oblasts may be in the order of KZT 3.8 billion (US$ 26.1 million) at the
20% coverage level, rising to a total premium of KZT 36 billion (US$ 251 million) at 50%
coverage level. (Table 4.10).




                                                - 114 -
Table 4.10. Spring Wheat MPCI Estimated Commercial Premium for Coverage Levels 10%
to 50% for compulsory scheme covering all eligible insured acreage (KZT million)
                                                Insured Yield Coverage Level
 Oblast
                            10%             20%             30%              40%             50%
 Akmola                           165             1,056           2,949              5,956     10,088
 EKO                               30              163             424                819          1,341
 Karaganda                         24              149             411                819          1,370
 Kostanay                         210             1,366           3,844              7,803     13,267
 NKO                              142              943            2,659              5,420         9,290
 Pavlodar                          19              113             302                593           978
 Total                            589           3,790          10,590           21,410        36,334
 US$ equivalents                  3.9              25.3            70.6              142.7         242.2
Source: Authors based on Statistics Agency Rayon spring wheat production data
4.66. This analysis also suggests that government of Kazakhstan may need to consider
introducing crop insurance premium subsidies as an alternative to its current practice of
subsidizing 50% of the claims in order to make crop insurance more affordable to farmers.
The potential costs to government of switching its current 50% of claims reinsurance to 50%
premium subsidies are shown in Table 4.11 assuming the scheme continues to be underwritten on
a 100% of spring wheat area obligatory basis. The fiscal implications for government are if the
levels of insured yield protection and sums insured are increased in Kazakhstan the corresponding
premium subsidies will also increase significantly as shown by the illustrative cost of KTZ 1.9
billion for 50% premium subsides at 20% coverage level. (See further discussion at end of
Section 4).

Table 4.11. Fiscal Cost to Government Kazakhstan of 50% Premium subsidies on MPCI
program (KZT million)
                                                  Insured Yield Coverage Level
 Oblast
                            10%             20%               30%              40%           50%
 Akmola                            82              528           1,475           2,978          5,044
 EKO                               15               81             212                410           670
 Karaganda                         12               75             205                409           685
 Kostanay                         105              683           1,922           3,902          6,634
 NKO                               71              472           1,330           2,710          4,645
 Pavlodar                          10               56             151                296           489
 Total                            295           1,895            5,295          10,705         18,167
 US$ equivalents                  2.0             12.6            35.3               71.4       121.1
Source: Authors based on Statistics Agency Rayon spring wheat production data

MPCI Probable Maximum Loss Estimates

4.67. Spring Wheat Production in Kazakhstan is very exposed to drought losses and with the
increase in Insured Yield Coverage Levels and Sums Insured of the proposed individual
grower MPCI scheme for spring wheat it is very important that the Probable Maximum Loss
(PML) exposures be quantified and a risk financing and reinsurance strategy is identified.
Under the current risk modelling exercise for spring wheat MPCI cover the PMLs‘ associated
with return periods of up to 1 in 250 years have been calculated for each coverage option from



                                               - 115 -
10% to 50% of average rayon yield and the results are summarized for an obligatory scheme in
Table 4.12 and Figure 4.4). The analysis suggests that for a maximum 50% coverage level the
expected losses that might occur every 10 years could be in the order of KZT 36.3 billion
(17.13% of the value of the TSI), and for the 1 in 100 year PML a loss of KZT 99.7 billion (47%
of TS), equivalent to a loss ratio of about 274%.
Table 4.12. Estimated Probable Maximum Loss for MPCI Wheat Scheme (KZT million)
                                                                 Coverage
 Item
                                        10%            20%         30%                 40%               50%
 Total Sum Insured (KZT mio)           42,424         84,849      127,273             169,697          212,121
 Probable Maximum Loss:
 1 in 10 years (% of TSI)               0.41%         2.09%        5.62%              10.85%           17.13%
 1 in 50 years (% of TSI)               3.13%         10.83%      19.79%              29.14%           37.93%
 1 in 100 years (% of TSI)              5.43%         16.80%      28.70%              39.17%           46.98%
 1 in 250 Years (% of TSI)             10.80%         25.99%      38.71%              46.96%           54.42%
 Probable Maximum Loss:
 1 in 10 years (KZT)                     175          1,777        7,153              18,414            36,336
 1 in 50 years (KZT)                    1,329         9,191        25,191             49,444            80,456
 1 in 100 years (KZT)                   2,304         14,251       36,524             66,463            99,652
 1 in 250 Years (KZT)                   4,581         22,051       49,268             79,688           115,428
 100 years PML /Loss Ratio (%)          391%          376%         345%               310%              274%
 PML 1 in 100 years (US$)                15.4          95.0        243.5               443.1            664.3
Source: Authors
Figure 4.4. Estimated Probable Maximum Loss for MPCI Wheat Scheme

                   PML Loss of Investment coverage under three different price
     60.00%                          scenarios (in Loss Cost)
     50.00%
     40.00%
     30.00%
     20.00%
     10.00%
        0.00%
                  1              50             100              150                  200                 250
                10% Coverage     20% Coverage     30% Coverage         40% Coverage            50% Coverage



Source: Authors
Implications for MPCI Reinsurance for Spring Wheat

4.68. Given the catastrophe risk exposures of spring wheat production to drought in
Kazakhstan, it is extremely unlikely that the insurance sector would be willing to assume the
increased liabilities implied under the proposed MPCI program unless government is willing to
provide reinsurance support for this initiative. Currently government provides 50:50 quota
share reinsurance protection to the private commercial crop insurers and mutual crop insurers but
as previously noted this protection does not cap their exposure to catastrophe losses. Therefore


                                                - 116 -
for the purposes of this study some preliminary analyses have been conducted for non-
proportional stop loss reinsurance protection for the spring wheat MPCI program.

4.69. Some preliminary modeling has been conducted to establish the indicative reinsurance
pricing for an Aggregate Stop Loss Reinsurance Protection for the spring wheat MPCI
program. The modeling has been conducted assuming full value protection and priority levels of
70%, 100% and 150% of GNPI for the four MPCI insured yield coverage levels. The results of
this analysis are summarized in Table 4.13 and further details of the stop loss reinsurance pricing
methodology which draws on accepted reinsurance-industry stop loss pricing methods are
presented in Annex 4. The analysis shows that for a full value Aggregate stop loss reinsurance
protection for losses excess of 100% GNPI, the stop loss reinsurance pricing would be in the
order of KZT 991 million (38.6% of GNPI) for 20% coverage level, rising to KZT 5.8 billion
(16% of GNPI) for 50% coverage. If the lower 70% of GNPI priority was to be adopted the
Aggregate Stop loss pricing would be correspondingly higher.

4.70. In practice, it should be recognized that unless the crop insurers form a single pool
entity the pricing of stop loss reinsurance cover would have to be conducted for each individual
insurance company and mutual insurer according to their own portfolio size and distribution and
insured yield coverage levels in each region.

Table 4.13. Indicative Pricing for Aggregate Stop Loss Reinsurance for Kazakhstan Spring
Wheat MPCI program
                                                      Insured Yield Coverage Level
         Item
                                10%            20%               30%                 40%     50%
                               Stop Loss Reinsurance Premium (KZT Million)
   Priority % of GNPI

          70%                   242            1115              2675                4948    7930
         100%                   227             991              2243                3895    5845
         150%                   208             829              1711                2664    3515
                  Stop Loss Reinsurance Premium (as Percent of Commercial Premium, GNPI
   Priority % of GNPI

          70%                  41.14%         29.42%            25.26%          23.11%      21.82%
         100%                  38.59%         26.14%            21.18%          18.19%      16.09%
         150%                  35.24%         21.88%            16.15%          12.44%      9.67%
Source: Authors

4.71. During the transition phase to a more market-based crop insurance program, it is
possible that the larger commercial crop insurance companies may be able to seek reinsurance
support from international reinsurers either on a non-proportional stop-loss basis, or a
combination of proportional and non proportional reinsurance. In order to gain access to
international reinsurance capacity, the individual insurance companies would need to
demonstrate: i) their financial ability and adequate solvency margins to sustain losses, ii) a core
crop insurance underwriting and claims management team, iii) a balanced MPCI crop portfolio
with geographic spread to ensure risk spread and indeed reinsurers may insist on sum insured
limits per Oblast or region to ensure accumulation control; iv) evidence that the commercial
premium rates for each insured yield coverage level are technically derived and contain both
catastrophe loading and margin to cover A&O Costs and profit margin; and v) evidence that the
insurer has in place the necessary in-field pre-inspection and crop loss assessment staffing
systems and procedures to control risk and adjust losses in a timely and accurate fashion.


                                                - 117 -
4.72. While some commercial insurers may be able to meet the requirements of international
reinsurers, it is unlikely that at present any of the farmer mutual crop insurance companies
would be able to meet these requirements and therefore in the short term it is likely that non-
proportional reinsurance cover would need to be provided by government.

4.73. Finally, it should be noted that while the non proportional stop loss reinsurance model
illustrated in Table 4.12. assumes a single excess layer providing full value cover, in practice
very few international reinsurers are willing to offer unlimited protection and that they will
normally insist on a layered reinsurance program with capped liability and for higher levels of
catastrophe risk it may be necessary for government to assume liability (See end of Section 4 for
further discussion).



Phase 3- Transformation into a fully Commercial Crop Insurance Scheme
for Kazakhstan
4.74. This Section presents proposals for a voluntary commercial public-private agricultural
insurance partnership for Kazakhstan, a central feature of which would be the formation of a
crop co-insurance Pool system, backed up by international reinsurance. This section presents a
series of options and recommendations for GRK and key stakeholders to consider for the
introduction of voluntary agricultural insurance in Kazakhstan, the creation of a crop insurance
Pool system which would be designed to encourage participation by the private commercial
insurance companies and to introduce a specialist agricultural insurance entity to act on behalf of
the Pool and capable of developing and implementing new classes of agricultural insurance. The
pool would be supported by a commercial reinsurance program which would be placed with
international reinsurers. Government and the FFSR‘s roles are also explored and it is likely that
this will centre on financial support in the form of premium subsides and possibly catastrophe
reinsurance protection.

Transition from Obligatory to Voluntary Crop Insurance

4.75. As part of the transition to a market based crop insurance system, policy makers in
Kazakhstan will need to consider making crop insurance voluntary. As previously noted
Kazakhstan is one of a small minority of countries to adopt obligatory crop insurance and almost
unique in trying to implement obligatory crop insurance through the private commercial
insurance sector.

4.76. In the short-term if crop insurance is made voluntary it is likely that there will be a
major reduction in the demand for crop insurance while the farming sectors adjust to the
realities of a demand-driven voluntary crop insurance system. At this stage it is not possible to
predict how great the contraction in demand by farmers for voluntary crop insurance may be, but
this is likely to be significant. Under a voluntary system, crop insurers would be free to select
which types of farmer, which crops and which regions they are willing to underwrite under the
crop insurance program.

4.77. The Obligatory Crop Insurance law of 2004 will need amending to reflect the new
requirements of a voluntary Public-Private Partnership crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan.
According to the roles government play in supporting this scheme the Law will need amending,




                                             - 118 -
for example to focus more specifically on government financial support in the form of
proportional and or non-proportional reinsurance and also potentially premium subsidy support.

4.78. Under a future voluntary crop insurance program Kazakhstan insurers would need to
seek to link crop insurance with other rural services for example input supplies (seeds,
fertilizers etc) and with seasonal crop-credit provided through the banking system. In many
countries, there are very close linkages between public sector crop-credit provision and crop
insurance and banks make their lending conditional on the farmer having crop insurance in place
at the time of receiving his loan. In other words, crop insurance is mandatory for credit recipients
and voluntary for non-credit recipients. Normally such crop-credit linked programs make the
bank the first beneficiary on the crop insurance policy in order to ensure that any indemnity is
used to repay the outstanding amount of loan: any balance on the insurance settlement is then
paid to the farmer. Countries which operate compulsory crop-credit insurance programs include
Mexico (both commercial crop loans and small farmer group loans are insured on a compulsory
basis), India (which has the world‘s largest national area-yield crop-credit insurance scheme
implemented through the public-sector Agricultural Insurance Company of India, AIC, covering
about 25 million smallholder farmers per year), The Philippines (where public sector crop credit
provision is again conditional on the farmer having an individual grower MPCI cover in place
through the parastatal agricultural insurer, the Philippines Crop Insurance Corporation, PCIC)
(See Mahul & Stutley 2010 for further details of countries with linkages between crop credit and
crop insurance).

Rationale for Creating an Agricultural Insurance Pool in Kazakhstan

4.79. In Kazakhstan under the third phase of transformation to a market-based crop
insurance system, it is recommended that policy makers review the potential to form a
Coinsurance Pool which is specifically dedicated to underwriting a national agricultural
insurance portfolio under a suitable private public partnership. In countries where insurance
markets are developing and there is little or no tradition of crop or livestock insurance or rural
insurance infrastructure, a pool coinsurance program may be a much more attractive and cost-
effective proposition for commercial insurance companies than if they were to try to operate
independently.

4.80. The potential benefits of an Insurance Pool include the ability to underwrite a much
broader and larger book of business and the potential to achieve a much better geographical
spread of risk, than if each company were operating independently. Other benefits economies
of scale in the costs of developing new products and programs and in underwriting risks and in
adjusting claims where a single lead coinsurer is appointed (or a separate Managing Underwriting
Unit is created) to implement the business on behalf of the pool members. There are also major
potential cost savings in the purchasing of reinsurance protection for a pooled coinsurance
program. It is recognized that there are potential drawbacks of Pools including the possible
reduction in competition on the range of products and services provided and in the premium rates
offered by the pool. Details on the benefits and limitations of Pools are contained in Box 4.3.

4.81. Coinsurance Pools for agricultural insurance have proved to be very popular with
private and mutual insurers in many countries including most notably, the Agroseguro39 Pool in
Spain, the Tarsim Pool in Turkey, the Philippines livestock insurance pool, the Austrian Hail
Insurance pool and various other pool arrangements in China, Malawi, Mongolia and Ukraine.

39
  AGROSEGURO stands for the Agrupación Española de Entidades Aseguradoras de los Seguros Agrarios
Combinados (Spanish Group of Insurance Entities of the Combined Agrarian Insurance)



                                              - 119 -
4.82. The rationale for forming a coinsurance pool in Kazakhstan centres on a number of
key factors which include:
        i)       The very small number of private commercial companies which are currently
                 supporting this scheme and the need to crowd in commercial insurers if crop
                 insurance is to remain a viable proposition in Kazakhstan. LIC/MPCI crop
                 insurance is a catastrophe class of business and many insurance companies are
                 reluctant to risk their capital on this risky class of business: however, under a Pool
                 agreement individual companies can participate with very small shares of the
                 overall risk if they wish.
        ii)      The prohibitively high start-up investment costs for individual insurance
                 companies in creating their own internal crop underwriting and claims
                 departments and then in developing regional networks of marketing and sales
                 agents and trained crop inspectors and loss assessors to administer the scheme
                 implementation. Pools offer the opportunity to create a single centralised
                 insurance underwriting and claims management and loss assessment capability
                 (often termed a Managing Underwriter, MU) and for individual Pool members to
                 contribute towards the running cost of the MU whilst benefiting from the
                 advantages of economies of scale in the fixed and variable costs of the single MU.
        iii)     The lack of common standards at regional level in the underwriting of crop
                 risks and especially in the in-field loss assessment capabilities of individual
                 insurance companies and the farmer mutual insurance associations. Under a Pool
                 Agreement the MU would be responsible for coordinating all underwriting and
                 loss adjustment activities and in ensuring that common standards are adopted
                 throughout the country.
        iv)      A lack of consistency in crop rating and competition which is driving down the
                 crop insurance premium rates to unsustainable levels. Under a Pool Agreement
                 all insurers would issue standard crop insurance policies and they would all adopt
                 the same premium rates for each crop in each zone and region;
        v)       The difficulties of arranging commercial international reinsurance protection
                 for individual Kazakhstani insurance companies with very different
                 underwriting standards and portfolios.        Under a Pool agreement, a single
                 reinsurance program would be purchased by the MU and it would be much
                 cheaper to transact a single reinsurance contract for the Pool.


Box 4.3. Benefits and Limitations of Coinsurance Pool Arrangements
Benefits
Economies of scale through operating as a single entity with shared (pooled) administration and operating
functions leading to costs savings due to:
* Reduced staffing requirements (fixed costs);
* Shared costs of product research and development, actuarial and rating;
* Reduced costs of underwriting and claims control and loss adjustment.
Cost advantages in purchasing common account (pooled) reinsurance protection rather than each
company trying to place its own reinsurance program. Advantages due to:
* Stronger negotiating position with reinsurers;
* Larger and more balanced portfolio and better spread of risk;
* Reduced costs of reinsurance due to pooled risk exposure;
* Reduced transaction costs (reinsurance brokerage, etc).




                                                 - 120 -
No competition on rates in a soft market and ability to maintain technically set rates. Most pools operate as
the sole insurance provided or monopoly (e.g. Austria, Senegal, Spain, Turkey), and there is therefore no
competition on pricing.
Ability to maintain underwriting and loss adjustment standards. Under a pool monopoly arrangement, the
pool manager can ensure that common and high standards are maintained in the underwriting of crop and
livestock insurance and in the adjusting of claims. Where companies are competing against each other for
standard crop insurance business, there is often a problem of varying loss adjustment standards between
companies.

Limitations
Pool may act as the sole agricultural insurer, resulting in lack of competition in the market in terms of the:
* Range of products and services offered by the monopoly pool underwriter;
* Restrictions on the range of perils which are insured;
* Restrictions on the regions where agricultural insurance is offered and/or the type of farmer insured;
* Lack of competitiveness in premium rates charged by the pool.
Source: Authors.




Institutional Framework for a PPP Agricultural Insurance Pool in Kazakhstan.

4.83. The proposed Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool would involve the active
participation of the public and private sectors. An outline institutional framework for the
Agricultural Insurance Pool is shown in Figure 4.5 which draws on the experiences of the
organizational structures of the Spanish and Turkish agricultural insurance pools. (See Annex 5).
The functions of each of the key stakeholders are discussed below.

4.84. The Agency for Financial Market and Financial Institutions Regulation and Control
would play an important legal and regulatory role on this scheme. The Agency would be
responsible for amending the current Law to make crop insurance a voluntary class of business
and to permit insurance companies to design and rate their own agricultural insurance policies.
The law should be amended in such a way to create an enhancing framework for agricultural
insurance in Kazakhstan and one which permits new classes and products such as livestock and
forestry insurance to be added in future. The legislation should also be modified to reflect
government‘s supporting roles including possibly financial subsidies on premiums and
catastrophe claims reinsurance.

4.85. The Ministry of Agriculture would continue to play a central role in the policy and
planning for agricultural insurance in Kazakhstan and would represent government’s fiscal
interests in supporting the scheme. It is proposed that MOA through its Department of Strategic
Planning would represent GRK‘s interests in the agricultural insurance scheme and it would be
responsible for planning the three yearly and annual agricultural insurance plan and budget in
conjunction with the FFSA and private insurance industry. MOA could also provide a useful
supporting role in the conduct of research and development into new agricultural insurance
products and programs.

4.86. The Fund for Financial Support to Agricultural Insurance, FFSA would continue to
act as the main public sector implementing agency on this pool agricultural insurance scheme.
Currently the FFSA has been responsible for participating in the adjusting of field-level crop
insurance claims, in maintaining an individual grower crop insurance and claims data-base, and in
settling the government‘s 50% share of crop claims to the insurance companies. In future it is
recommended that FFSA‘s roles would no longer include participation in field-level loss
assessment, but that its functions would be expanded to include:


                                                   - 121 -
       Coordination with the Crop Insurance Pool‘s Managing Underwriting Company (MUC)
        in the development of the technical studies required for the design of new crop, livestock,
        forestry and aquaculture insurance policies and programs into the system.
       Management of the government‘s financial fund for the support of agricultural insurance
        and disbursement of funds (including as appropriate, premium subsidies and catastrophe
        reinsured claims payments) to the MUC on behalf of the Pool Coinsurers.
       Maintenance of crop insurance underwriting and claims data-bases
       Information and advice to farmers
4.87. The central feature of the agricultural insurance system would be the creation by the
Non-Life Insurance Companies of an Agricultural Coinsurance Pool which would be designed
to underwrite all classes of agricultural insurance business. The agricultural insurance pool
would be a legally constituted insurance company with paid up capital contributed by each
participating non-life insurer and which would report to and be supervised by a Board of
Directors which would coordinate the activities of the Pool Coinsurers with Government
departments.
4.88. It is proposed that the coinsurers also create a separate Managing Underwriting
Company which would be responsible for underwriting the scheme on behalf of the coinsurers
and which would handle premiums and claims on behalf of the pool coinsurers and which would
also negotiate reinsurance on behalf of the Pool Coinsurers.

   Figure 4.5. Organisational Framework for Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool


               Fund for Financial                                       Agency for Financial Market and
                                               Ministry of
             Support to Agriculture                                     Financial Institutions Regulation
                                               Agriculture                         and Control
                    (FFSA)
                  Financial support:           Policy, planning,
                 premium subsidies,             research and                   Insurance legal &
                     catastrophe                development                        regulatory
                     reinsurance

                                          Pool Management Board
                                                                            Kazakhstan Non-Life
                International               AGRICULTURAL                   Insurance Companies
                 Reinsurers                INSURANCE POOL
                                                                               Farmer Mutual Crop
                                                                              Insurance Associations

                                         Managing Underwriting
                                              Company


              Farmer Associations, Cooperatives,                   Large Farmer Production
              Rural Banks and other Aggregators                           Enterprises

                 Small and Medium Farmers




                                              Source: Authors

Functions of the Pool Coinsurers and the Managing Underwriting Company

Agricultural Insurance Pool


                                                   - 122 -
4.89. It is proposed that participation in the Agricultural Insurance Pool would be open to
all the Non-life private insurance industry in Kazakhstan. The local stakeholders would also
need to decide whether to open up participation to the farmers‘ mutual crop insurance
associations, so long as these mutuals could meet the minimum capital requirements of the Pool
and comply with other norms and conditions of the general insurance act and amended
Agricultural Insurance Law.

4.90. In Spain which is one of Europe’s oldest and largest Agricultural Insurance Pool
formed in 1980, there are currently 28 coinsurers in the AGROSEGURO Pool which includes
both private and mutual insurance companies including Mapfre Insurance & Reinsurance
Company, Spain‘s largest insurance company and the Spanish public-sector catastrophe reinsurer,
Consorcio de Compensacion de Seguros. The largest shareholder in the pool is Mapfre with a
shareholding of more than 15%; the smallest coinsurer has less than a 1% share in the Pool. Size
of shareholding is therefore not a bar to participation in the Pool. Each company‘s share of
annual agricultural insurance premiums and liability is determined according to its percentage
share in the Pool during that underwriting year. Participation in the pool is completely voluntary
and insurance companies are permitted to join and leave the Pool after completion of an
underwriting campaign (year), but in order to maintain continuity, in practice companies agree to
sign up to the pool for a three-year period. In Turkey, the TARSIM Agricultural Insurance Pool
has 22 insurance company members, but in this instance each insurance company has equal
shares in the scheme.

4.91. It is recommended that the Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool is constituted on
similar lines to the Spanish model namely that participation in the pool is voluntary, that
individual insurance companies are permitted to take up different size of share-holding in the
company and that the principle that each companies‘ share of premiums and claims is
proportional to its shareholding as opposed to any other criteria (for example, the amount of
premium the companies individually collect and cede to the pool). Finally the concept of
requesting companies to sign-up for a period of 3 years to ensure stability should also be
considered.

4.92. Under the market-based Pool crop insurance system it is hoped that the participation
by private insurance companies will be high and the shares in the pool will be fully subscribed.
The principle of a coinsurance pool is that 100% of the liability is divided up between its
subscribing members according to pre-agreed underwriting limits and agreed risk retention limits
of each company. If, however, the scheme cannot be fully subscribed in the start-up phase,
government could consider becoming a coinsurer for a limited period of time.

Pool Managing Underwriting Company

4.93. There are two main options for managing the Agricultural Insurance Pool, including i)
for the coinsurers to appoint a lead coinsurer to manage the business on behalf of the pool
members, or ii) to create a separate limited company owned and funded by the Pool members and
which would have its own core team of underwriting and claims management staff, an equipped
office and regional capability to administer and implement loss assessment etc.

4.94. In Spain and in Turkey the national Pool agricultural insurance programs are
implemented on behalf of the Pool coinsurers by specialist Managing Companies, established
by and reporting to the Pool Coinsurers. In Spain AGROSEGURO is a limited company formed
by the pool insurers in 1980 to transact agricultural insurance and to manage claims and to
indemnify losses on the coinsurers‘ behalves. AGROSEGURO started with a very small team of


                                             - 123 -
agricultural underwriters, claims managers and loss assessors and office support staff, and today
has grown into Europe‘s largest agricultural insurance managing company underwriting over
260,000 agricultural insurance policies and a further 30,000 livestock forestry and aquaculture
policies generating total premiums of US$ 864 million in 2010. In 2010 AGROSEGURO had a
full time complement of about 75 permanent staff based in its headquarters in Madrid and in each
of the 14 autonomous regions: it has a General Management Unit, Legal Department and
Regional Branches and core operational departments responsible for i) product research and
development, ii) production and communication (underwriting), iii) claims administration and
loss assessment, iv) administration and accounting and v) organization and information
technology systems. As such it functions as a very professional commercial managing company
on behalf of its coinsurers. AGROSEGURO‘s internal A&O costs are financed out of earned
premiums on the agricultural insurance business in writes on behalf of the pool: in 2010 its
internal A&O expenses amounted to 3.55% of total earned premiums (AGROSEGURO 2011)40.
In Turkey, the agricultural pool insurance scheme is managed by TARSIM, a private corporation
established in 2005 by the insurance companies to carry out all the underwriting and claims
adjusting and settlement tasks of the Pool in accordance with the Agricultural Insurance Act of
2005. (Bora 201041; Uçak & Berk, 200942) .

4.95. In Kazakhstan it is recommended that in conjunction with the formation of an
agricultural insurance pool scheme that the participating coinsurers also approve the
establishment of a Managing Underwriting Company (MUC). Initially this company would
only require a very small full time staff complement including a General Manager who should be
an experienced non-life insurance expert, an agricultural insurance underwriter who should have
experience under the obligatory crop insurance scheme, a claims manager, a crop loss assessment
manager who would be responsible for coordinating the field-based loss assessment activities, a
small number of junior underwriters, data analyst and data-base specialist, accounting and other
back-up support staff. The MUC should also have a small permanent staff capability to manage
the crop insurance program and especially claims notification and loss assessment procedures in
each region/Oblast of Kazakhstan. It is recommended that the MUC assume responsibility for all
product design and rating, crop underwriting and policy issuance and management of premiums,
through to being responsible for claims, loss assessment and claims settlement. The MUC should
report regularly and submit premium and claims bordereau accounts to the Pool Coinsurers
Management Committee.

Pool Operating Systems and Procedures

4.96. The proposed operating systems and procedures for the Kazakhstan Agricultural
Insurance Pool are shown in Figure 4.6.

4.97. Under the proposed Agricultural Insurance Pool the participating insurance
companies (coinsurers) would be responsible for marketing the MUC approved crop insurance
policies at agreed premium rates. Both in Spain and in Turkey AGROSEGURO and TARSIM
respectively are responsible for the design and rating of crop (and livestock and other classes)
insurance policies and in setting commercial premium rates for each region. The Pool coinsurers

40
   AGROSEGURO (2011). Spain: The multiperil crop insurance 2010.
41
   Bora, B. (2010) Subsidised Agricultural Insurance in Turkey (TARSIM). Available from:
http://www.mapfre.com/mapfrere/docs/html/revistas/trebol/n54/docs/Articulo2en.pdf
42
   Uçak H., and A. Berk (2009). Structural change in Turkish agricultural insurance policy and recent
developments. http://www.piu.org.pl/public/upload/ibrowser/ Wiadomosci%20Ubezpieczeniowe
/numer2/WU2_09ucakberk.pdf


                                                 - 124 -
are exclusively responsible for all policy promotion, marketing and sales using either their own
sales agent networks and or through farmer associations, cooperatives, individual brokers, banks
and other sales distribution channels. In Spain the companies market the AGROSEGURO
policies on their own paper and they receive a pre-agreed commission to cover policy marketing.
All policies are placed with AGROSEGURO and all premiums net of commissions is pooled by
AGROSEGURO. A key principle of the Spanish system is that the shares of premium and
liability are determined by each company‘s shareholding in the Pool at the start of the
underwriting campaign and not by its actual share of policy sales and generated premium volume.
It is proposed that the same procedures would apply to the Kazakhstan Pool namely that the Pool
member would be responsible for all policy marketing and sales, that they would receive an
agreed commission for transacting this business on behalf of the Pool, that premiums net of
commission would be paid over to the MUC and that each member‘s share of liability would be
based on their share in the coinsurance pool and not on the basis of their volume of sales. In this
way all pool members will share equally in the pool of risks from different regions of Kazakhstan.

4.98. The MUC would be responsible for the functions of product design and rating,
underwriting and risk acceptance, claims administration and loss assessment and for
negotiating common account reinsurance protection on behalf of and reporting to the pool
coinsurers. The MUC would design and rate standard crop insurance products and policies
which would then be approved by the Insurance Regulator. Once approved the policies would be
marketed by the Pool coinsurers at the MUC agreed premium rates for each crop and risk zone.
As such there would be no competition between insurance companies over premium rates, but
rather according to the quality of their services to farmers. The MUC would be responsible for
handling premiums and for settling claims on behalf of the pool.

4.99. Loss Notification and Loss Assessment Procedures would be streamlined and
strengthened under the proposed system and fall under the direct control of the MUC. The
MUC would be responsible for establishing a regional network of part-time crop loss assessors in
each Oblast and Rayon. These part-time loss assessors would receive intensive training in crop
loss assessment procedures and in the use of standardized loss assessment procedural manuals
which would be designed by the MUC (possibly with support from MOA and FFSA). In the
start-up phase of the Pool program, it is likely that a national; network of about 40 to 50 trained43
loss assessors would be adequate to manage the expected volume of crop losses, so long as these
teams were properly funded and had access to transport and communications. The loss assessors
would report to and be controlled by the MUC regional representative.

4.100. Farmers and or their agents would be responsible for communicating losses (potential
claims) to the MUC local or regional office and wherever possible would use web-based or cell-
phone reporting systems. In order to reduce the propensity for farmers to submit claims for minor
losses which fall within the farmer‘s self-retention, it is recommended that a bonus-malus system
be introduced (See previous section for further details).

4.101. The adjusting of losses would be conducted by the MUC approved loss assessors and
would no longer involve the formation of a 5-person Rayon-level committee. The only persons
who would be required to attend the loss assessment would be the approved loss assessor, the
farmer (Insured) and at the farmer‘s request, his local agent. The loss assessor would be required
to complete a standard loss assessment form in the field and to estimate the amount of crop loss

43
  This recommendation is based on the Spanish system where AGROSEGUO in 2010 maintained a
network of about 350 crop loss assessors: in 2010 the crop loss assessors adjusted a total of nearly 95,000
claims or an average of about 275 claims per adjuster (AGROSEGURO Annual Report 2010).


                                                  - 125 -
or yield reduction and to confirm whether this loss is above or below the threshold which would
give rise to a claim. The farmer would then be required to counter-sign the field loss assessment
form and to confirm his agreement or not with the assessed result: where the farmer does not
agree with the assessment he would in the first instance be entitled to a second assessment to be
conducted in the presence of a third party and if at this stage there is still no agreement,
arbitration procedures would apply. If the farmer agrees with the assessed results the loss
assessment would then be forwarded to the MUC for processing: either to closed (losses below
the threshold for a claim) or adjusted and settled (losses above the threshold giving rise to a
claim). The MUC would be responsible for settling claims to each claimant either directly or
through local distributers as agreed.

Figure 4.6. Kazakhstan Crop Insurance Pool Operating Systems and Procedures

                               EXPERIENCIA DE ESPAÑA EN EL DESARROLLO DE LOS
                               SEGUROS AGRICOLAS
                   Kazakhstan: Proposed Operating Procedures Flow Chart


                                                     Payment of Premium




                                                                                         Managing Underwriting
        Insured Farmers,




                                                                                                                 Company (MUC)
                                                                        Pool Insurance
          Cooperatives
          Associations,




                                                       Intermediaries




                                                                         Companies
                                Policy
                                promotion
                                marketing &
                                sales




                                                      Communication of Losses


                           Loss Assessment and Payment of Claims



Source: Author‘s adapted from Burgas 2007

Government Support to the Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool

4.102. As part of the switch to a market-based Pool Agricultural Insurance System in
Kazakhstan, the role of Public-sector support to this scheme should be reviewed. To date
GRK‘s main support to the obligatory crop insurance scheme has been in the form of free Quota
Share reinsurance of 50% of the incurred claims, but this is likely to change under the transition
to a market-based agricultural insurance scheme. There is now a considerable body of literature
on the different ways governments around the world support crop insurance and this section
briefly reviews some of the roles GRK might play in future44. A summary of the potential roles
government may play in supporting agricultural insurance is presented in Box 4.4 and these roles
are considered below in the context of Kazakhstan.

44
  For a recent review of government support to agricultural insurance in more than 65 countries see Mahul
and Stutley 2010.


                                                        - 126 -
Legal and regulatory

4.103. GRK can facilitate a review and amendments of the Crop Insurance Law to support the
introduction of the voluntary Pool Agricultural Insurance system into Kazakhstan. As
previously reported the Obligatory Law of 2004 will require a comprehensive review and
amendments to facilitate the introduction of voluntary commercial crop insurance. In this process
GRK may wish to review the Turkish Agricultural Insurance Act of 2005 which lead to the
introduction of the subsidized TARSIM Pool Agricultural Insurance system.



Enhancing Data and Information Systems

4.104. There may be important roles for GRK in enhancing data and information systems for
crop insurance in Kazakhstan. In Kazakhstan if the insurance sector is to design new crop
insurance products and programs, it will increasingly need access to time series crop production
and yield data, to weather data and to remote sensing data. Government can facilitate the access
to this data. In addition, GRK has already identified a need in increase the density of weather
stations if it is to introduce WII and the APPAP II project contains a sub-component with funding
to invest in weather stations . Furthermore if an AYII is to be introduced in future, the Insurance
sector will need to collaborate closely with MOA and the Agency of Statistics to obtain accurate
estimates of area (Rayon) yields at the time of harvest. (See Section 5).

Product Research and Development and Access to Data
4.105. Governments can usefully assist the private insurance sector to conduct research into
the demand for new agricultural insurance products and to then provide access to crop and
weather data and statistics which are essential to the insurers if they are to design and rate new
products and policies. In Spain, ENESA/MOA plays a central role in assisting AGROSEGURO
with the development of new products and programs. In Kazakhstan, MOA/FFRS could perform
a similar and very important role going forward. Also KHM and the NSA are likely to have very
important roles in provision of needed data and information and to assist in the future
development of WII and remote sensing based insurance products and programs.

Education, Training and Capacity Building
4.106. On the basis of this study there would appear to be an important role for GRK to
support Pool management to strengthen farmer insurance awareness and education training
programs. Governments can play a key role in supporting farmer awareness and education
programs and capacity building and workshops and technical training programs for key
agricultural insurance staff. In Kazakhstan it appears that relatively little priority has been given
by crop insurers to date on explaining the role of insurance and the operation of the LIC policy
and government through MOA and other rural institutions could provide financial and logistical
support for farmer-level crop insurance education. Insurance Company staff will also need
specialist training in product design, actuarial and rating, underwriting and claims administration
and loss assessment systems and procedures. Similar training also needs to be provided to staff in
the banks, MFIs, and suppliers if these organizations get involved as delivery channels/agents.

Catastrophe Risk Financing
4.107. In Kazakhstan under the PPP, it is likely that government will continue to play an
important role in supporting the Crop Insurance Pool risk financing insurance and
reinsurance program. In many countries government is actively involved in the reinsurance of


                                              - 127 -
agriculture: key territories where government acts as a catastrophe reinsurer (either directly or
indirectly through a national reinsurance company) include the USA and Canada, Spain, Brazil,
India, South Korea, China and Kazakhstan. In Kazakhstan, it is proposed to introduce
commercial international reinsurance of the Pool scheme: it is, however, likely that GRK will
need to continue supporting the reinsurance program on a catastrophe basis at least in the short
term (This subject is reviewed further below).

Premium Subsidies
4.108. Premium subsidies are the most widely practiced form of government support to
agricultural insurance practiced by over two thirds of countries which have some form of
agricultural insurance. Globally average premium subsidy levels are in the order of 50% of the
full cost of premium, but in some countries (including USA, Spain, Portugal and Italy)
governments provide subsidies as high as 75% to 80% of the premium. Premium subsidies are,
however, very controversial for a number of reasons. The provision of non-discriminatory
premium subsidies is regressive because subsidies disproportionately benefit the larger farmers to
the detriment of small and marginal farmers. Also subsidies that cover a large part of the overall
premium tend to promote moral hazard whereby farmers grow high risk crops which attract high
premium subsidies in regions which are not technically suited to the crop. Once premium
subsidies have been introduced by governments it is politically very difficult to reduce or to
withdraw these subsidies and in many of the countries which operate non-discriminatory
premium subsidies the fiscal costs to government are extremely high.

4.109. In Kazakhstan it is unlikely that voluntary crop insurance will take-off without
government support to premium subsidies. Since the introduction of obligatory crop insurance
in 2005, the insurance companies have in effect received 50% premium subsides through the
government 50% share in claims. Under the proposal to increase crop insurance coverage levels
and the need to introduce actuarially determined rates, the crop insurance premiums which will
need to be charged to farmers will have to increase significantly going forward. It is likely,
however, that under a voluntary crop insurance program that very farmers will continue to buy
crop insurance unless this is accompanied by premium subsidies. It is therefore suggested that
government should switch the bulk of its financial support out of 50% Quota Share reinsurance
into providing crop insurance premium subsidies. (The cost implications are considered below).

Box 4.6. Roles for Government in Supporting Agricultural Insurance
Legal and Regulatory Framework. One of the most important functions for government in facilitating
agricultural insurance markets is the establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework and
where necessary to enact specific agricultural insurance legislation.
Enhancing Data and Information Systems. Time-series data and information on crop production and
yields and climate are essential for the design and rating of any traditional crop insurance product or new
weather index product. Governments can provide an invaluable service by creating national data bases and
to then make these data bases available to all interested private commercial insurers either free of cost, or at
concessionary rates.
Product Research and Development. Among the major start-up costs for any new crop or livestock
insurance program is the design (including the design of loss assessment procedures) and rating of new
products, and then in the pilot testing of the new products and programs. Such costs may be prohibitive for
individual private commercial insurers especially in developing countries. In such situations there is
justification for government to provide financial support to product design and rating, especially where the
products and rates are then made available to all interested insurers.
Education, Training and Capacity Building. Governments can play an important role on new
agricultural insurance programs by supporting (a) farmer awareness and education programs and (b)
capacity building and workshops and technical training programs for key agricultural insurance staff.



                                                   - 128 -
Catastrophe Risk Financing. Agricultural insurance often has to protect against catastrophe perils of
flood, drought, and wind storm in crops and epidemic disease outbreak in livestock. Most insurance
companies do not have adequate capital to retain their catastrophe risk exposures and they typically
purchase some form of contingency financing and or reinsurance protection. For new companies which do
not have large amounts of capital and have not yet built up claims reserves, the ability to retain risk is
usually low and they typically need to purchase quota share treaty reinsurance and to then seek non-
proportional reinsurance protection on their retention. In start-up situations where the insurance company
does not have an established track record and loss history the costs of reinsurance protection may be very
high. In such situations, government support to the reinsurance program may be highly cost effective.
Public Sector Premium Subsidies. Premium subsidies are the most widely practiced form of government
support to agricultural insurance practiced by over two thirds of countries which have some form of
agricultural insurance. Governments justify the provision of agricultural insurance premium subsidies on
the grounds that they make insurance more affordable for farmers particularly small and marginal farmers
thereby increasing the rate of adoption and uptake of agricultural insurance. There are, however, major
drawbacks of premium subsidies including the disproportionately benefit larger farmers to the detriment of
small and marginal farmers, they tend to promote moral hazard namely to encourage crop production in
high risk regions, once premium subsidies once introduced are very difficult to reduce or to withdraw and
they represent a major cost to government.
Source: Authors

Agricultural Insurance Pool: Financial and Reinsurance

4.110. The possible financial and reinsurance options for the Kazakhstan Agricultural
Insurance Pool are presented in Figure 4.7. The proposal assumes that the Pool managers will
purchase international reinsurance protection (non-proportional and possibly proportional as
required) at fully commercial reinsurance rates, and that GRK will provide financial support in
the form of crop insurance premium subsidies and possibly through involvement in the financing
of catastrophe reinsurance layers. Some preliminary estimates are made for the voluntary MPCI
program of the potential demand for cover and the associated premiums and liability based on the
assumptions presented in this section, along with provisional estimates of the costs of premium
subsides and finally some comments on a structured risk financing and risk transfer program for
Kazakhstan.




                                                 - 129 -
Figure 4.7. Kazakhstan Agricultural Insurance Pool Financial Flows


                          Kazakhstan Financial Flows


                                           Catastrophe
        Fund for Financial Support to      Reinsurance         International
              Agriculture, FFSA                                 Reinsurers

                       Premium subsidies                               Commercial
                                                                       Reinsurance

                                                            KAZAKHSTAN
         Farmers           Payment of Premium              AGRICULTURAL
                                                          INSURANCE POOL


                                 Payment of Claims




Source: Authors

Voluntary Crop Insurance Portfolio Financial Estimates

4.111. It is currently very difficult to estimate the future demand for crop insurance under a
voluntary commercial crop insurance scheme. There are considerable uncertainties over the
future demand for voluntary commercial crop insurance. In practice demand will be influenced
by farmer‘s demand for and acceptance of the existing and new crop (and livestock) insurance
products that are introduced, the commercial premium costs and farmer‘s affordability or
willingness to pay for crop insurance, the levels of premium subsidies offered by government and
finally decisions over whether to link crop insurance to crop credit provision.

4.112. Some provisional financial estimates of Total Sum Insured, premium and costs of
premium subsidies to government have been calculated for the spring wheat MPCI program
over the next 5 years. The model assumes an average 40% coverage level and demand projection
uptake rates over the next 5 years under a voluntary program starting in year 1 with 10% uptake
and rising to 50% uptake after 5 years. It is recognized that these are optimistic uptake
assumptions. On this basis, total scheme liability in year 1 might be in the order of KZT 17
billion (US$ 113 million) rising by year 5 to KZT 85 billion (US$ 567 million) with
corresponding year 1 commercial premium of nearly KZT 2.1 billion (US$ 14.0 million) rising to
KZT 10.7 billion (US$ 71.3 million) by year 5. (Table 4.14).

4.113. The provision estimates of the costs to government of premium subsidies assuming
50% premium subsidy level would be nearly KZT 1.07 billion (US$ 7.1 million) in year 1 rising
to KZT 5.35 billion (US$ 35.7 million) by year 5. Estimates are also provided for premium
subsidy levels of 25% and 65% of premium. (Table 4.14).




                                                - 130 -
Table 4.14. 5-Year Estimates of Voluntary MPCI Uptake and Total Sum Insured and
Premium Income and Costs of Premium Subsidies (40% Coverage level)
                          MPCI 40%              MPCI Crop Insurance Uptake Scenarios next 5-years (KZT Million)
         Item            Coverage Level
                                            Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5
                          100% Basis        10%             20%              30%             40%             50%
 Sum Insured                      169,697      16,970           33,939         50,909           67,879            84,849
 Commercial Premium                21,410       2,141            4,282           6,423           8,564            10,705
 Cost of GRK Premium Subsidies:
       25% of premium               5,353            535         1,071           1,606           2,141             2,676
       50% of premium              10,705       1,071            2,141           3,212           4,282             5,353
       65% of premium              13,917       1,392            2,783           4,175           5,567             6,958
 Probable Maximum Loss:
    PML 1 in 100 years             66,470       6,647           13,294         19,941           26,588            33,235
    PML 1 in 250 years             79,688       7,969           15,938         23,906           31,875            39,844
Source: Authors

Risk Financing and Reinsurance

4.114. The associated financial liability on the MPCI program that the Pool co-insurers
would need to protect through a combination of insurance and reinsurance are also modeled
for 1 in 100 year and 1in 250 year probable maximum loss scenarios. In Year 1 for 10% MPCI
scheme uptake, the 1 in 100 year PML liability is estimated at KZT 6.6 billion (US$ 44 million)
rising to KZT 33.2 billion (US$ 221 million) by year 5 (assuming 50% uptake). It is
recommended that this would be the minimum level of protection which the Pool scheme
management should protect through their risk financing and reinsurance program and if a more
conservative level of protection is required they could consider the 1 in 250 year PML estimates.
(Table 4.14).

4.115. It is assumed that in future the Agricultural Insurance Pool will purchase common
account stop loss protection from international reinsurers in order to protect the program
against catastrophe losses. It is likely in the initial stages that international reinsurers will only
be willing to provide layered stop loss reinsurance protection in order to limit their liability to
catastrophe claims and that the Government of Kazakhstan may therefore need to also participate
in the structured risk financing program by providing catastrophe reinsurance for low frequency
but high severity losses. An example of layered insurance and reinsurance is presented in Figure
4.8 below.




                                                      - 131 -
Figure 4.8. Example of Agricultural Risk Layering
          50
  Size of
 the Loss                                                           Government

          40
                                                                                   Risk
                                                                     Reinsurers    Transfer
          30
                                                                     Insurance
                                                                    Companies
          20
                                                                    Cooperatives   Risk
                                                                     & Mutuals     Pooling
          10
                                                                    Agricultural   Risk
                                                                     Producers     Retention
            0
                  Minor   Small    Medium    Large   Catastrophic
 Type of Event:

Mahul & Stutley 2010

4.116. For the proposed spring wheat MPCI program and 30% coverage level, figure 4.9.
presents an illustrative commercial insurance and stop loss reinsurance program which is
intended to provide layered protection to the Pool coinsurers for losses excess 100% priority up to
a maximum 300% loss ratio (300% of Gross Net Premium Income, GNPI). The 300% loss ratio
is equivalent to a loss of about 35% of total sum insured and is equivalent to an expected PML of
1 in 200 years. Under this scenario the international stop loss reinsurers would provide layered
protection for two layers: Layer 1, 50% excess 100% GNPI and Layer 2, 50% excess 150%
GNPI, while government would come in with catastrophe reinsurance protection for losses excess
200% up to 300% of GNPI. In year 1 of the program assuming 10% uptake of the MPCI spring
wheat program and 30% coverage level, the indicative pricing for these three layers would be:
Layer 1 3.9% of GNPI; Layer 2, 2.7% of GNPI and Layer 3, 3.4% of GNPI45.




45
     GNPI 10% uptake would be equivalent to GTZ 1.492 billion (US$ 10 million


                                                 - 132 -
Figure 4.9. Illustrative Stop Loss Reinsurance Program for Kazakhstan wheat MPCI
Program and assumed 30% Coverage level

                   Loss Ratio % GNPI
                   300%


                                    Government of Kazakhstan
                                   Layer 3 100% xs 200% GNPI
                   200%
                                      International Reinsurers
                   150%             Layer 2 50% xs 150% GNPI
                                      International Reinsurers
                   100%             Layer 1 50% xs 100% GNPI


                                     Agricultural Insurance Pool
                                         Primary Retention
                     0%

                                         Source: Authors

4.117. It is unlikely that international reinsurers would agree to reduce the Pool’s priority to
less than 100% GNPI. In this instance the pool may also elect to reduce its exposure by
reinsuring some of its primary retention on a proportional or quota share treaty basis. These and
other risk layering options would be developed further in the design and planning stages of a
commercial crop insurance program for Kazakhstan




                                            - 133 -
 Chapter 5: Opportunities for New Crop Insurance Products

5.1.    In Kazakhstan there appears to be both a need for and opportunities for Risk Differentiation
and Product Development. Under the major mature agricultural insurance programs found in countries
such as USA, Canada, Spain, Australia, the markets are highly developed and differentiated in terms of
the range of crop, livestock, forestry, and aquaculture insurance products they provide to different
segments of the farming community and in terms of the perils that are underwritten. In the case of crop
insurance there are usually a range of product types ranging from simple named peril crop hail and or
frost covers through to individual grower MPCI policies and new index-based products. Currently in
Kazakhstan a single Loss of Investment Cost Policy providing a low level of costs-based protection is
provided on a compulsory basis to all peasant farmers and agri-business enterprises, irrespective of
whether the product meets their risk management needs and to a major extent this probably explains many
farmers‘ dissatisfaction with the existing scheme.

5.2.    As part of this World Bank study an assessment has been conducted of the potential to design
and implement new crop insurance products including named peril frost and hail cover, AYII and WII
for specific types of Kazakh farmer and for different regions according to the key risk exposures. This
section presents the findings of this assessment for these new crop insurance products including a
description of the cover design features and indicative sums insured and premium rates for each product
and where possible some provisional estimates of the potential demand for each product.

Named Peril Crop Insurance
5.3.     Crop hail has been the second most important cause of insured claims on the Obligatory crop
insurance scheme over the past 6 years. Hail is a moderate to severe problem in many parts of
Kazakhstan with peak months of hail exposure occulting between May and July (Section 2). Over the
past 6 years of operation of the Obligatory LIC scheme, hail has been the second most important cause of
loss after drought, accounting for about 2.5% of the total are lost due to insured perils. On the basis of the
field visits it appears that there may be demand under a voluntary scheme by farmers in some regions for
a hail-only insurance policy. This section presents some preliminary recommendations for the design and
rating of a spring wheat hail policy for Kazakhstan.

Features, Advantaged and Disadvantages of Named Peril Damage based Crop Insurance

5.4.     Crop Hail insurance is the world’s oldest form of crop insurance, the product is very standard
and well understood and is extensively applied to the insurance of wheat and a wide range of cereals,
horticultural and tree fruit crops. Single peril hail insurance is the simplest and best known type of
indemnity-based crop insurance which has operated for more than 100 years in Europe, North America,
Argentina, Australia and New Zealand. Today there is a large body of accumulated experience with crop-
hail damage-based insurance & indemnity products and wordings are readily accessible through
international associations of hail insurers, premium rates can initially be set based on transferred
international experience and so long as suitably high each and every loss deductibles (or franchises) are
maintained, the rates are generally not high, and finally standardised damage-based loss assessment
procedures can be accessed from the international hail associations and training provided to local staff.

5.5.    Crop-hail insurance is distinguished from the Kazakhstan Loss of Investment Costs Policy, in
that the insurance and indemnity system is not based on “loss of the crop yield”, but rather on the
“percentage hail damage” caused to the crop. Under a damage based indemnity system, physical loss or



                                               - 134 -
damage to the crop is measured in the field soon after a specific loss event to an insured peril and the
claim is usually settled shortly after the time of loss. Normally the damage is measured as a percentage
loss, and this percentage is applied to an agreed sum insured e.g.: incurred production costs or other
agreed value) for the crop. The sum insured may be adjusted downwards if the actual crop is found to be
below the normal production potential for uninsured reasons, for example poor crop establishment. A
deductible is usually applied to the loss expressed as ―percentage damage‖, although this can be a fixed
value. This method is most applicable to programmes with single or a limited number of discrete event
perils (e.g. hail, windstorm and frost). An example of the basis of insurance and indemnity for hail
insurance is given in Annex 6 with a worked example.

5.6.     The key advantages of a named-peril (hail) damage-based indemnity policy include: (a) there is
no need to collect time-series individual grower production and yield data on which basis to establish a
normal average yield and then an Insured Yield because the policy uses a damage based indemnity
procedure rather than loss of yield; (b) the sum insured can be set according to an agreed value per acre,
based either on production costs, or production costs plus an element of the expected gross margin profit,
or finally a revenue valuation based on the farm-gate sale price of the crop times the expected output; and
finally (c) loss adjustment is based on percentage damage estimation to the crop according to its growth
stage and this procedure is usually easier and cheaper to implement than yield-based loss assessment.

5.7.     Insurers are generally willing to insure hail damage because it is considered as a non-systemic
or catastrophe class of crop insurance business and is not subject to anti-selection by farmers. Many
crop insurers are very reluctant to offer MPCI loss of yield cover against drought, flood, windstorm and
flood because of the systemic or catastrophe nature of these perils. Conversely hail is usually a relatively
high frequency but low severity peril and so long as the insurer can achieve a geographical spread of risk,
is not subject to catastrophe losses. Hail is also usually an unforeseeable and unpredictable event and it is
therefore unlike drought cover, it is not subject to anti-selection and or moral hazard.

5.8.     The drawbacks of damage-based crop insurance and indemnity policies include: (a) the product
is best suited to specific event perils that cause obvious and easily measured damage to the crop such as
hail or wind and sometimes frost or excess rain, but it is not suitable for progressive perils which impact
over time on the crop such as drought and where losses can only be objectively measured in terms of
yield reduction or loss; and (b) the product is not suitable for other perils such as flood. Indeed flood is
not offered by insurers as a single-peril on traditional indemnity-based crop insurance policies because of
the problems of anti-selection.

Cover Design Considerations for Spring Wheat Cover in Kazakhstan

5.9.   Hail insurance is a very flexible class of insurance which can be designed to provide farmers
with a wide range of options and choice. (Key features of a hail policy for spring wheat are reviewed
below and a summary of these cover design options is presented in Box 5.1)

5.10. Hail Insurance can be designed to prove a very high level of crop revenue protection if
requested by the insured. The sum insured for crop hail insurance is very flexible as it is not dependent
on an insured yield per se. Insurers will generally permit farmers to insure their crops against a minimum
level equivalent to the costs of production per hectare or amount of crop loan per hectare through to a
maximum valuation based on the gross revenue (yield x expected market sale price). In Kazakhstan, in
principle, a spring wheat grower achieving an average yield of about 15 centners/Ha (1.5 metric tons per
hectare) could insure 100% of his expected wheat revenue against hail, or a value of about KZT
45,000/Ha (at current sales prices for wheat of about KZT 3,000/Ha).




                                              - 135 -
5.11. Hail insurance can be marketed both pre-season and during the crop growing season right up
to the time of harvest. Because hail is considered an unforeseeable and unpredictable event, many hail
insurers will permit farmers to purchase cover at any time during the growing season subject to a waiting
period of 24 or 48 hours. This is in contrast to loss of yield based policies which insurer against drought
where a sales cut-off period of usually a month prior to sowing is required to avoid pre-existing
conditions and potential anti-selection.

5.12. Hail insurers may offer the Farmer choice to insure only a part of his total fields and total
cultivated area. In the start-up phase of a new crop hail insurance program for spring wheat in
Kazakhstan it is, however, recommended that in order to achieve volume and a spread of risk, farmers
should be required to declare and insure all their fields and farms of the same crop located in any one
Rayon.

5.13. The Insured Unit for the purposes of Loss Adjustment can also be very flexible under a crop
hail policy. There are many options for defining the Insured Unit (IU) for a crop hail policy namely the
area of the insured crop over which the damage is estimated and the policy excess applied. At the highest
level of aggregation the IU can be defined on a whole farm-basis as the entire area of the same crop
grown in the same farm or location. Conversely insurers may agree to offer insurance on a Field by Field
basis in which case the IU is the individual field. Finally some insurers agree to offer crop insurance on
an acre by acre basis such that any area within a field which is subject to damage which exceeds the
policy excess is eligible for an indemnity. For Kazakhstan spring wheat it is recommended that insurers
offer optional covers for Whole-Farm insurance and on a field by field basis.

5.14. It is conventional on a hail policy to apply a first loss excess (deductible) which is retained by
the insured. The objective of the policy excess is to eliminate small frictional hail losses which are very
time consuming and costly for the insurer to adjust and which would rapidly erode the premium reserved
to pay hail claims and to only indemnify the more severe hail losses which are of economic consequence
to the Insured. The excess is usually applied on an each and every hail loss event basis and can take
several forms including:

        i) a percentage damage deductible which is deducted for the gross assessed percentage damage.
        An example would be a 6% deductible which is applied on an eel basis. If the assessed damage
        amounted to 5% this would fall below the deductible and there would be no claim. If the
        assessed damage was 15%, the net damage would be 9% (15% - 6% deductible) which would be
        applied to the sum insured.

        ii) a percentage franchise (which is sometime termed a ―qualifying franchise). If the assessed
        damage amounted to 5% and a 6% franchise applied, there would be no indemnity as the damage
        would be below the 6% franchise. However for the 15% damage example, as this exceeds the 6%
        qualifying franchise, the damage would be indemnified from the ground-up or in full and the
        Insured would receive an indemnity of 15% damage applied to his sum insured.

        iii) on some policies rather than apply a percentage damage excess, a fixed value excess (for
        example KZT 10,000 eel) is applied either as a franchise or as a deductible. In this case the gross
        value of the assessed hail damage would have to exceed KZT 10,000 to give rise to a claim.

5.15. From a loss assessment perspective some hail insurers prefer to apply a deductible as opposed
to a franchise. The operation of a franchise places very high demands on the need for accurate in-field
percentage damage assessment. For example with a 6% franchise, where the percentage hail damage is
light and where sampling error means that the assessed damage could be anywhere from 4% to 8% over
the IU, the tendency is for the farmer to dispute any assessment which falls below 6% and which would


                                             - 136 -
give rise to a claim in full. Conversely with a 5% deductible which is deducted from the assessed damage
the level of precision required when assessing low levels of hail damage is less demanding.

5.16. Crop hail deductibles or franchises are commonly in the order of 3% to 6% for cereals, but is
areas of high hail risk exposure may need to be correspondingly higher. In much of Europe, North
America and in Latin America hail deductibles are between 3% to 5% eel. In Argentina, the industry has
followed a standard hail policy for wheat with 6% franchise for many years. In some parts of the word
with a high hail risk exposure, deductibles may, however, need to be higher and in the order of 10% or
greater per event.

5.17. Crop hail damage assessment procedures for wheat are very well developed. Standard hail loss
assessment procedures have been developed by the European, South African, Argentinean and US crop
hail insurers and these manuals of procedures should be readily accessible by crop hail insurers in
Kazakhstan to adapt to their own conditions.

Box 5.1. Cover Design Features for Named Peril Hail Policy in Kazakhstan
Insured Crop: Spring wheat during the cover period against physical loss or damage to the crop due to
the action of direct hail damage. This policy does not insure against loss of wheat grain quality (price-
downgrading) in spring wheat.
Basis of Insurance and Indemnity. Percentage Damage-based Policy
Insured Perils: Hail: direct physical damage or loss to the Insured crop. In addition, physical loss or
damage caused by wind associated with hail may be considered as an optional peril, subject to the
payment of an additional premium.
Cover Period: From the time of crop emergence and full stand establishment (defined as 10cm stage in
wheat) through to the completion of harvest of the crop. Cover may be purchased at any time between the
opening and completion dates of cover subject to a waiting period of 24 hours from the time of payment
of premium up to the time of inception of hail cover.
Insured Unit: The Insured is obliged to declare and insure all his/her fields of spring wheat grown in the
same Rayon. The Insured may select to insure all their fields of spring wheat as: i) a single Insured Unit
(whole farm-basis), or ii) separately by field (field by field basis).
Basis of Sum Insured: A fixed amount in KZT per hectare which the Insured may elect based on his/her
coverage requirements and which may range from a costs of production per hectare through to a
maximum level based on the average crop revenue value for spring wheat in that Rayon as specified by
the local department of the MOA. The total sum insured will be calculated by multiplying the per hectare
sum insured by the area (in hectares) of each and every insured field declared by the Insured and summing
the total.
Basis of Indemnity:
     (i) Gross Value of Loss = Sum Insured x Percentage Hail Damage. Where the percentage damage
     exceeds the Policy Excess, giving rise to a claim, the Indemnity (I) = Sum Insured x (Percentage
     Damage – Policy Excess) = Net value of claim
     (ii) Policy Excess: The policy excess will be applied on an each and every loss (eel) basis in each
     Insured Unit as defined. Excess options include:
           i)     Percentage damage deductible (e.g. 6% eel) or
           ii)    Percentage damage franchise (e.g. 6% eel), or
           iii)   A fixed value amount (deductible or franchise), for example KZT 10,000 eel.
Loss Notification procedure: The Insured is responsible for notifying the Insurer of a hail event which
is expected to exceed the policy Excess (deductible or franchise) within 48 hours of the loss event
occurrence.
Loss Assessment procedure: In-field loss assessment will be adopted using standard procedures to
measure the area damaged by hail and to assess the average percentage hail damage in each Insured Unit.



                                                 - 137 -
Under and Over Insurance (of Spring Wheat Area) : In the event of a loss, if it is discovered that the
Insured has under-declared his/her spring wheat sown area by more than 5% of the total area, the Insurer
retains the right to apply the Law of Average to any claims settlement. In the case of Over-Insurance the
maximum amount payable in the event of a total loss will be the actual assessed cultivated area times the
agreed per hectare sum insured and subject to the policy excess.
Exclusions: All perils apart from Hail (and wind- optional) are excluded.
Other Key Conditions:
The Insured must declare and insure all his/her spring wheat grown in the same Rayon;
Premium is payable prior to inception.
Source: Authors

Hail Exposure and Preliminary Rating Considerations

5.18. Hail is usually a localised phenomenon which seldom accumulates over wide areas and as
such it does not pose the same catastrophe exposure as systemic perils such as drought. Hail is often a
relatively high frequency (i.e. it occurs every season), but low severity (hails tends to be localized) class
of crop insurance business.

5.19. In order to design and rate a crop hail insurance program it is necessary to obtain data on
three key parameters, hail exposure data, hail hazard data and hail severity data. In some countries
hail exposure data is available from meteorological stations in the form of the number of recorded hail
days per month, but because hail is a localized phenomenon, this may not be representative of hail
occurrence at the regional level. In Kazakhstan information is available from KHM for selected stations
on the frequency of occurrence of hail by month for the period 1990 to 2010 which shows that the peak
hail months are from May to July (Figure 5.1.). While exposure data is readily available for spring wheat
as per the cultivated area and value of spring wheat per Rayon and Oblast there is very little recorded
information in Kazakhstan regarding hail severity and damage. For these reasons a simple hail damage
simulation model has been developed for spring wheat in Kazakhstan and in order to generate indicative
hail rates for each Oblast.

Figure 5.1. Kazakhstan Frequency of Occurrence of Hail by Oblast 1990 to 2010 (21 years)

                                           45%
     Frequency of Occurence (% of years)




                                           40%
                                           35%
                                           30%
                                           25%
                                           20%
                                           15%
                                           10%
                                           5%
                                           0%




                                                 Kostanay Average   Akmola Average    Pavlodar Average   SKO Average

Source: Authors from KHM (Figures taken from Table 2.1.)


                                                                            - 138 -
5.20. A simple hail rating simulation model has been developed for spring wheat in Kazakhstan
using industry approved hail rating methodology. The model has been developed for 13 sample weather
stations in selected Rayons of Akmola, Kostanay, NKO, Pavlodar and SKO Oblasts. The model
combines exposure data for each Rayon during each month of the growing season with the hazard model
(frequency of occurrence of hail by month), a hail severity index from Low to Very severe and a hail
vulnerability model which are then combined to simulate hail percentage damage distributions with
10,000 iterations and to estimate the average burning cost or pure loss cost for each station/Rayon. The
average loss costs are then adjusted for a 6% hail franchise and grossed up by an assumed factor of 20%
to derive indicative average commercial hail rates for each sample Rayon. These rates are summarised in
Figure 5.2 and Annex 6. It is stressed that these rates are indicative and would require further analysis if a
commercial crop hail scheme is to be launched in Kazakhstan in future.

5.21. The preliminary hail rating for spring wheat in selected rayons in Kazakhstan suggests that it
should be possible to design hail cover at affordable rates to producers. For the 6% franchise average
rates vary from about 2.5% to 3.5% in the lowest hail risk regions, up to 5% or 6% in the medium hail
risk regions and as high as 7.5% in Mikhailovka Rayon Kostanay Oblast and 12.9% in Kazgurt Rayon,
SKO. In the next stage it would be useful to validate these relative hail rates with local agricultural
specialists in each Oblast and Rayon and who are familiar with hail exposure and hail damage in wheat.

Figure 5.2. Indicative Average Rayon-level Commercial Hail Rates for Spring Wheat in a sample of
Oblasts and Rayons
                              14.00%                                                                              12.9%
   Average Premium Rate (%)




                              12.00%
                              10.00%
                                                                                 7.5%
                               8.00%          6.7%
                               6.00%
                                       5.6%                                             5.5% 5.8%
                                                     4.1%          3.9%                                    4.4%
                               4.00%                        3.1%          2.8%                      2.6%
                                                                                                                          2.0%
                               2.00%
                               0.00%




Source: Authors analysis of crop hail incidence data provided by Arka consulting

Conclusions on Crop Hail

5.22. Crop hail insurance should be relatively easy to design and implement in Kazakhstan as a
commercial crop insurance product. Since this is a non-catastrophe crop insurance product, it should be
relatively easier for the crop insurance companies and possibly the Farmer‘s Mutual Insurance
Associations to underwrite this product with limited access to reinsurance protection. Because the
average rates for single-peril hail insurance are potentially considerably lower than the individual grower
loss of yield covers (LIC Policy or MPCI and the AYII product), there is also more potential to market
this cover to Kazakhstan farmers on a voluntary basis and without the need for government premium
subsidies. It is likely that the demand for single-peril crop hail insurance for spring wheat will be quite



                                                                   - 139 -
low in the initial stages of implementation of this product as hail exposure is not as widespread as the
drought risk exposure. There would be an important start-up cost namely to design the suitable crop hail
loss assessment procedures for Kazakhstan and to then identify a core of loss assessors who would
receive specialist training in hail loss assessment procedures in wheat. Finally, it is likely that there will
be demand for crop hail in other crops, for example cotton and horticultural crops grown in southern
Kazakhstan and over time there should be potential to develop and expand a crop hail portfolio in
Kazakhstan.



Area-Yield Index Crop Insurance
5.23. On the basis of this feasibility study it appears that there may be considerable potential in
Kazakhstan to design and implement AYII as an alternative to or as a complement to the existing
individual grower LIC and new proposed individual grower MPCI crop insurance programs. Outline
proposals are presented below for a prototype Area-Yield Index product and program for spring wheat
grown in Kazakhstan, but it is stressed that further design work will be required if the insurance
companies decide to proceed with the pilot testing and implementation of this product. It is assumed that
AYII would be introduced as a voluntary commercial crop insurance program. Further details of the
AYII product are contained in Annex 7.

5.24. The prototype spring wheat AYII product presented in this section excludes Aktobe and WKO
Oblasts and their Rayons on account of the commercially uninsurable risk exposures in these two
Rayons. The AYII program presented in this section therefore relates only to the 6 main wheat growing
Oblasts of Akmola, EKO, Karaganda, Kostanay, NKO and Pavlodar. Aktobe and WKO are excluded
from the AYII analysis as they could not be included in a commercial AYII scheme. However, it is
possible that government may wish to use an AYII approach to providing disaster compensation to
farmers in these two Oblasts and for this reason in Annex 7, coverage levels, insured yields and indicative
premium rates are also presented separately for Aktobe and WKO.

Features, Advantages and Disadvantages of AYII

5.25. AYII represents an alternative approach to MPCI insurance which aims to overcome many of
the drawbacks of traditional individual grower MPCI insurance. The key feature of this product is that
it does not indemnify crop yield losses at the individual field or grower level; rather, an Area-Yield-Index
product makes indemnity payments to growers according to yield loss or shortfall against an average area
yield (the index) in a defined geographical area (e.g., the total sown area of spring wheat grown in a
single Rayon). An area-yield index policy establishes an Insured Yield which is expressed as a
percentage (termed the ―Coverage Level‖) of the historical average yield for each crop in the defined
geographical area such as a Rayon and which forms the Insured Unit (IU). Farmers whose fields are
located within the IU may purchase optional Coverage Levels which typically vary between a minimum
of 50 percent and a maximum of 80 percent of the historical average yield. The actual average yield for
the insured crop is established by sample field measurement (usually involving crop cutting) in the IU and
an indemnity is paid by the amount that the actual average yield falls short of the Coverage level
purchased by each farmer.

5.26. An example of the basis of insurance and indemnity for an AYII cover for spring wheat is
shown in Figure 5.3 for spring wheat. For this example Bulandinski rayon in Akmola was selected. For
this example it is assumed that the actual 5-year area average yield of spring wheat is 10 centners/Ha in
Bulandinski Rayon and all framers are offered the same coverage level of 70% of the average yield or 7
centners per hectare. The unit sum insured is KZT 3,210 per center giving a standard sum insured of


                                               - 140 -
KZT 22,470/Ha. Three farmers each with total planted area of 1,000 Ha purchase cover. It is a moderate
drought season and farmer A achieves an actual average yield on his land of 7 centners/Ha; Farmer B,
incurred more severe losses and achieved 5 centners/Ha and finally farmer C achieved only 3 centners/Ha
on average. However under the AYII cover, the policy does not indemnify each farmer according to his
own losses, but rather according to the actual average yield reduction at the Rayon level. In this example
the Rayon actual average yield was only 5 centners/Ha and therefore the yield loss was 2 centners/Ha (7
centners – 5 centners) with an indemnity payment of KZT 6,420/Ha Each of the insured farmers
therefore received the 2 centner/Ha indemnity over their 1,000 Ha farms valued at KZT 642,000 per
farmer, in spite of the fact that Farmer A did not suffer any yield shortfall against the Rayon 70% cover
level, while farmer C incurred more than a 2 centner/ha shortfall on his own land..

Figure 5.3. Illustrative example of Basis of Insurance and Indemnity for AYII cover in wheat
 Insurance Contract Conditions:
 Insured Peril: All Risk Policy                                                                       Area Yield Index Insurance Payout
 Crop: Spring wheat                                                                                                Examples
                                                                                            11        PE Rayon Level Expected Yield
 Rayon: Bulandinski in Akmola Oblast
 Type of Farmer: Production Enterprise (PE)                                                 10
 PE‘s 5-year rayon-level Average Expected Yield for PEs (EY): 10 centner/ha                       9
 PE‘s rayon –Level Guaranteed Yield at 70% coverage (GY): 7 centner./ha
 Agreed price (AP): KZT 3210 /center                                                              8




                                                                                Yiel;d (Mt./ha)
 Sum Insured KZT 22,470/Ha                                                                        7
 Insured Unit Area (IUA): Farm A, B, and C, each, with 1,000 hectares                                 Insurance Payouts = 2 centner/he.
                                                                                                  6
 And identical TSI of KZT 2.25 million
                                                                                                  5
PE‘s rayon-level actual average yield (AY)= 5 centner/ha, but:                                    4   PE Rayon Level Actual Yield
PE-Farmer‘s A actual yield (AYA) = 7 centner/ha; crop loss 0 centners/ha.
PE-Farmer‘s B actual yield (AYB) = 5 centner/ha; crop loss 2 centner/ha.                          3
PE-Farmer‘s C actual yield (AYC) = 3 centner/ha; crop loss 4 centner/ha                           2
 Insurance Payout Calculation: (IPC)                                                              1
 If AY < GY, then:                                                                                0
 IPC = (GY – AY) * AP* IUA                                                                            Farm A Actual   Farm A Actual       Farm A Actual
 IPC = (7 centners/he - 5 centners/he) * KZT 3,210 /he.* 1,000 hectares =                                Yield = 7       Yield = 5           Yield = 3
 KZT 6,420/Ha or KZT 642,000 per farmer                                                                centner/ha      centner/ha          centner/ha
 AYII provides payouts to all the farmers situated in the area selected as IU                                        Actual Yield
                                                                                                                     Farmer Actual Loss
                                                                                                               Area-yield Index Payouts
    Source: Authors


5.27. AYII works best where farmers’ crop production systems, technology levels and crop output
and yields in the defined IU are relatively homogeneous and furthermore responds best to systemic risks
such as drought which tend to affect farmer‘s production and yields in the same way across wide
geographic areas. In Kazakhstan spring wheat crop production systems are understood to be relatively
homogeneous at the Rayon-level, but as Section 4 has shown there are differences in technology levels
and the average production and yields obtained by the 2 categories of wheat producers, i) production
enterprises and ii) commercial farmers. As AYII is intended as a catastrophe product, in principle, these
technology and yield differences between these two categories of farmers should not, however, negate the
use of this crop insurance tool. (See below for further discussion of homogeneity of spring wheat
production at Rayon level in Kazakhstan and the issue of basis risk).

5.28. In the context of Kazakhstan a key potential advantage of AYII over individual grower MPCI
is the ability to offer higher levels of insured yield coverage at lower rates because losses are adjusted
against an area yield index and not at the individual farmer level. Section 4 showed that although
individual grower MPCI is technically feasible in Kazakhstan, on account of the very high variability in
crop production and yields, the maximum coverage level that can be offered to growers at affordable
premium rates in most Rayons is only between 20% and 50% of average yield. AYII indemnifies losses
according to yield variation or loss at the area-level, in this case the Rayon and because of the



                                                              - 141 -
considerably lower variation in aggregate rayon level crop production and yields year on year, it should
be possible to offer higher coverage levels of 30% to 70% and even higher in some regions and at more
affordable rates than for individual grower MPCI.

5.29. Other key advantages of the AYII approach are that moral hazard and anti-selection are
minimized, and as the costs of administering such a policy are much reduced, this offers the potential
to market this product at lower premium costs to farmers. As the policy responds to yield loss at the
county or Rayon area-level and not at the level of the individual farmer, no farmer can influence the yield
indemnity payments and as such anti-selection and moral hazard are minimized. Administration costs are
also greatly reduced because there is no need for pre-inspections on individual farms and loss assessment
is not conducted on an individual farmer and field by field basis, but rather according to a pre-agreed
random sampling of crop yields on plots within the IU. These costs savings can be passed on to farmers
in the form of lower crop insurance premiums.

5.30. The main drawback of an AYII policy is “Basis Risk” or the potential difference between the
insured area-yield outcome and the actual yields achieved by individual insured farmers within the
insured area. Basis risk arises where an individual grower may incur severe crop yield losses due to a
localized peril e.g. hail, or flooding by a nearby river, but because these localized losses do not impact on
the district or rayon average yield, the farmer who has incurred severe crop damage does not receive an
indemnity. In addition, basis risk may arise where individual farmer crop production and yields are
highly heterogeneous (different) in the same Rayon, which will invalidate using and Area-based
approach. (See below for further discussion of Basis Risk if farming systems, production and yields
within the Insured Unit are not relatively homogeneous).

5.31. AYII is potentially a flexible crop insurance product that can be implemented at the micro-level
for individual farmers, or alternatively as a meso-level product that is designed to protect the credit
portfolio of a regional financial institution. In Kazakhstan there may be scope to design AYII both as a
micro-level individual grower product for medium to large wheat (or other cereal) producers and to then
design it as a meso-level product to protect the cooperative or MFI loan portfolios to large numbers of
small rural households in individual Rayons in Southern Kazakhstan (further discussion in Chapter 6).

International experience with AYII

5.32. AYII has been widely adopted for smallholder rice and wheat cropping in India and where
crop insurance in linked to seasonal crop credit. India has operated a public-sector AYII program for
more than 30 years under its public-sector National Crop Insurance Scheme, NAIS, which is implemented
by the Agricultural Insurance Company, AIC, India Limited, a publicly owned specialist agricultural
insurer. Crop insurance is compulsory for farmers who borrow seasonal production credit. Currently this
program insures about 25 million Indian farmers each year. In order to make crop insurance widely
available at affordable prices to India‘s small and marginal farmers, the government has capped premium
rates at about one third of the actuarially required levels and then provided AIC with free stop loss
reinsurance protection: in the case of food crops, reinsurance cuts in at a 100% loss ratio, while for
commercial and horticultural crops, the priority is higher at 150% loss ratio (Figure 5.4). The program
therefore shows several common features with the Kazakhstan LIC scheme including compulsion of
cover, capped premium rates and government support for reinsurance, although in Kazakhstan this is
based on a 50% quota share as opposed to the non-proportional stop loss protection provided in India.
Although the NAIS has achieved very high levels of insurance uptake by Indian farmers, the scheme
incurs major delays (often of up to 6 months post harvest) in arriving at the estimates of actual area-yield
and in settling claims and this delay is very unpopular with farmers. For the past five years the World
Bank has been working with AIC to strengthen and reform the NAIS scheme into a market based system
including most importantly, (i) introduction of actuarial rating, (ii) switch of government financial support


                                              - 142 -
from claims compensation to crop insurance premium subsidies and (iii) opening up of the market to
competition by local and international reinsurers. This modified NAIS program was formally launched in
the Rabi Season 2010/11 in about 10% of the total NAIS command area and if successful this market-
based PPP system will gradually be introduced into all states of India. (See Box 5.2. for further details).

Figure 5.4. Government Stop Loss Protection for NAIS scheme, India

 Loss Ratio
 (%)

                        FOOD                                        COMMERCIAL
                       CROPS                                         & HORTIC.
                       (70% of
                      premium)                                           CROPS
                                                                     (30% of premium)
                                       GOVERNMENT
                                        OF INDIA &
                                          STATE
                                       GOVERNMENT
                                        STOP LOSS
                                       PROTECTION



       150%
                                                                        AICI
       100%                                                          RETENTION
                      AICI
                   RETENTION

Source: Authors

Box 5.2. Main features of India‟s mNAIS scheme for Rabi 2010/11

Actuarial regime. The mNAIS scheme operates on an ―actuarial regime‖ in which the government‘s
financial liability is predominantly in the form of premium subsidies given to AICI and funded ex-ante,
thereby reducing the contingent and uncertain ex-post fiscal exposure currently faced by the government
under NAIS and reducing delays in claims settlement. 

Up-front premium subsidies. AICI receives premiums (farmer collections plus premium subsidies from the
government) and is responsible for managing the liability of the mNAIS through risk transfer to private
reinsurance markets and risk retention through its reserves. It is financially able to operate on a sustainable
basis. 

On-account partial payment. The mNAIS product continues to be based on an area yield-based approach,
with a provision for an early part payment to farmers (in season) based on weather indices. 

Small insurance units. Crop-cutting experiments to assess crop yield estimates are lowered from block
level to village level to reduce basis risk (i.e. the mismatch between the actual, individual crop yield losses
and the insurance indemnity). 

Cutoff dates. Adverse selection is reduced through the enforcement of early purchase deadlines ahead of


                                                   - 143 -
the crop season. 

Additional benefits. Additional benefits are offered for prevention of sowing, replanting, post-harvest
losses, and localized risk, such as hail losses or landslides.

Early settlement of claims. mNAIS combines weather based indices for on-account partial payment of
claims in case of adverse mid-season conditions, whereas area-yield indices are used for final payment of
claims. The final estimation of loss is based on area-yield measurement at the time of harvest using crop
cutting experiments.

Source: GFDRR, 2010.




5.33. Other countries which are operating AYII include most notably the USA (where the product is
termed Group Risk Plan, GRP) and this product is being researched in parts of Eastern Europe
(Ukraine), Africa (Senegal, Ghana and Burkina Faso), South America (Brazil and Peru) and Asia
(Bangladesh and Nepal).

5.34. In the Ukraine, a subsidised AYII scheme was launched for winter wheat in 2003, but this
scheme was poorly designed and implemented and and has not taken off. In Ukraine as in Kazakhstan,
agriculture is an important sector, especially for the production of winter wheat which is the leading
export crop. Agriculture is very exposed to drought (e.g. in 2003, 2005, 2007), spring frosts, strong
winds, hail and for winter crops, the additional risk of ―winterkill‖ (low temperature and freeze damage to
the crop) which in 2003 caused catastrophe losses in more than 70% of the winter crops. During the
Soviet period, Ukrainian state and collective farms were insured under the standard multiple-peril crop
insurance program that operated throughout the Soviet Union. Following independence there was no crop
insurance until the early 2000s. Between 2001 and 2003, a local insurer with the assistance of an
international agricultural reinsurer analysed the possibilities for designing and implementing both
individual grower MPCI cover for cereals and area-yield index insurance. There were major difficulties
in designing and rating individual grower MPCI because following the break up of the state and collective
farms it was impossible to establish normal average or expected yields for the newly formed large-scale
commercial enterprises and or small to medium producers. Similarly there were difficulties in designing
and rating AYII because although relatively reliable Oblast-level historical data were available, it was
difficult to obtain accurate time-series information at the Rayon level. Further difficulties included the
fact that post-independence average crop yields at Rayon and Oblast level showed a major declining trend
due to reduced fertilizer use and the time-series data had to be carefully detrended. A voluntary pilot
AYII scheme was launched in 2003 with a pool of local insurers, backed by European reinsures, but the
scheme was not popular with farmers and suffered from poor implementation especially in the adjusting
of losses and the scheme has now been discontinued. See Box 5.3. for further details of the problems of
the Ukraine AYII pilot scheme. In the design of any AYII scheme for Kazakhstan, planners should learn
from the lessons and experiences of Ukraine.46

Box 5.3. AYII Pilot Crop Insurance Scheme in Ukraine

Crop Area Yield Insurance has been implemented poorly in Ukraine. A pilot hybrid multiple-peril crop insurance
(MPCI) and area-yield index (AYII) scheme was launched in 2003 for all major field crops. The Rayon was the
Insured Unit for the AYII cover. Indemnities were paid based on regional (Rayon) statistical records (but apparently

46
  In this context, it should also be noted that the private insurance sector in Ukraine has also tried between 2003 and
2005 to develop crop weather index insurance (WII) with limited success. For a very good review of the issues and
challenges faced in Ukraine see WFP & IFAD 2010.


                                                   - 144 -
not an official statistical report) and a farm-level inspection of actual yield and the farmer had to provide proof that
the crop yield reduction was due to an insured peril – this meant farmers had to obtain reports from a local
meteorological station. Complicated and unclear loss assessment procedures meant that payouts were usually
delayed for up to 6 months. Recently producers have lost interest in the area-based yield index crop insurance
product, and insurers have been looking for effective ways to insure crops.

Source: WFP and IFAD 2010.




Pre-conditions for the Design of AYII for Spring Wheat in Kazakhstan

5.35. There are several pre-conditions for the operation of AYII for spring wheat (and any other
crops) in Kazakhstan including:

         (a) homogeneous spring wheat producing regions or zones (the Insured Unit) with low yield
         variation between farmers in the Insured Unit (UI),
         (b) for the defined Insured Unit, historical spring wheat sown area, production and average yield
         data for the past 15 years or more on which basis to establish the Insured Yield and technical
         rates, and
         (c) an independent and statistically accurate system of measuring average spring wheat yields in
         the defined region or zone and on which basis to trigger claims payments.
5.36. AYII is only effective if individual farmer-level spring wheat production systems and yields
within a defined insured unit (the Rayon) are relatively homogeneous. Basis risk will arise under an
AYII program if spring wheat farming systems are highly heterogeneous within the defined IU (the
Rayon) in terms of soil types and fertility and soil moisture retention and in farmers‘ use of technology
and inputs and where this translates into highly variable spring wheat yields between farmers in that
Rayon. Under an AYII cover where all farmers in the IU are treated the same and losses are paid against
shortfall on the area-average yield the danger is that farmers located on the best soils and who use high
technology levels may receive an indemnity although their actual yields are well above the Rayon Insured
Yield: conversely farmers using very low levels of technology and whose average normal yields are well
below the Rayon average yield may also receive an indemnity even when they have not incurred any
yield losses. Under this study, it had been intended to access individual farmer yield data for the six
selected Rayons in Akmola, Kostanay and Pavlodar to check for yield variability and basis risk under an
AYII program operating at a Rayon level. To date, however, it has only been possible to analyse spring
wheat data for small samples of individual farmers in two Rayons in Pavlodar and one in Kostanay and
this analysis suggests that yield variability between farmers in the same year is usually low enough to
ensure that an AYII product could operate effectively with an acceptable level of basis risk caused by
between farmer yield-variability. It is also notable from this analysis that in a good year (e.g. 2009),
average yields are more similar between farmers in the same Rayon with COV‘s of about 20% to 25%:
however, in drought years (2008, 2010), individual grower yields are more variable (COV‘s as high as
40% or greater) and this may be explained by differences between farmers in terms of soil moisture
management through minimum tillage etc. (See Annex 7 for full details of this analysis of individual
farmers‘ yields and issues of basis risk in Kazakhstan).

5.37. In Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan Statistics Agency (KSA) has an accurate system for measuring
and reporting spring wheat sown area, harvested area, production and average yields at a regional
(Oblast) and zonal (Rayon) level and 17 years of historical spring wheat data from 1994 to 2010 are
available for the purposes of this study. Section 2 of this report noted that Kazakhstan has a
comprehensive system for measuring crop production and yields and in the case of spring wheat it has


                                                   - 145 -
been possible to access 17-years of crop production and yield data at Rayon level for production
enterprises, commercial farmers and in total. This time-series production and yield data has enabled the
design and rating of an AYII product for spring wheat which operates at a Rayon level. KSA reports
spring wheat sown area, production and yields separately for production enterprises and for commercial
farmers and in total. The prototype AYII product presented in this section of the report is based on a
single Rayon-level AYII product (i.e. it is designed on combined crop production and yield data of both
types of farmer), but if required separate covers could be designed for production enterprises and for
commercial farmers as the AYII rating tool has been programmed to output insured yields and premium
rates for both types of farmer in all Rayons and Oblasts.

5.38. For the operation of AYII it is necessary to have an independent, accurate and timely system of
measuring and reporting of actual average yields in each IU at the time of harvest and on which basis
to indemnify insured yield shortfall below the area actual average yield. In India which has the oldest
AYII program in implementation, a national system of sample crop cutting in randomly chosen fields is
used to calculate the actual average yield for each insured crop in each Insured Unit (IU). While crop-
cutting is potentially a very accurate method of determining average yield in the IU this is dependent on
having a statistically adequate number of sample crop-cuts, which must be randomly sited in selected
fields and which if properly conducted is a very time consuming and costly exercise. In India the system
only works because the state governments subsidize the costs of crop-cutting for the insurance sector. In
the USA, the GRP area-yield plan operates at a county-level as the IU: in the USA county-level actual
average yields are estimated by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) from grain-elevator
area, production and yield reports and no in-field crop cutting is conducted. This county yield estimation
procedure is considered accurate and impartial by both the insurance sector and by the Insured Farmers.

5.39. Kazakhstan adopts systematic sampling procedures for measuring actual average yields at
Rayon level at the time of harvest and this could form the basis of indemnity under any Rayon-level
AYII scheme in future. In Kazakhstan, KSA uses a multi-stage crop yield estimation procedure first to
select villages and farmers who are differentiated into production enterprises and commercial farmers and
then secondly to select fields for in-field randomly selected crop-cutting using 1 m x 1 m squares. Crop-
cutting is conducted immediately prior to harvest for all major grain crops including spring wheat and the
weight of the yield from each sample is adjusted according to its moisture content and the average yield in
center per hectare calculated. The crop-cut yields for each type of producer are then averaged to produce
the estimates of average yields per Rayon separately for production enterprises and commercial farmers
and then in aggregate for both types of farmer at whole Rayon. Full details of the yield estimation
procedures are contained in KSA‘s Guideline on Crop Yield Inspection Arrangements47. This yield
estimation procedure at Rayon level is considered to be impartial and accurate and could form the basis of
indemnifying yield loss under a Rayon-level AYII program for spring wheat.

Spring Wheat: Insured Area, Yield Coverage Levels, Sums Insured and Calculated Indicative
Premium Rates

Area Insured Unit

5.40. For the operation of an AYII cover it is necessary to have a minimum sown area of the insured
crop in each Insured Unit (Rayon). The setting of a minimum sown area is to avoid moral hazard, or in
other words, to ensure that individual farmers are not able to influence the area yield outcomes in the IU.



47
  KSA (2004) Guideline on Crop Yield Inspection Arrangement. Department for Industrial Statistics, Kazakhstan
Statistics Agency, Almaty 2004


                                               - 146 -
In the USA the minimum area is 15,000 acres (about 6,000 Ha) per county (Skees et al 1997)48. In
northern Kazakhstan where there are some very large spring wheat production enterprises the criterion
used under the current study was a minimum of 10,000 Ha per Rayon based on the past 5-year average
sown area from 2006 to 2010 (combined sown area for production enterprises and commercial
producers). The size of spring wheat Insured Unit varies hugely across the 6 Oblasts and the 73 (84% of
total) qualifying rayons with > 10,000 Ha of spring wheat. Overall, EKO has the smallest size of Insured
Unit (IU) with an average area per rayon of spring wheat of slightly less 25,000 Ha, while NKO has the
largest IUs with an average of about 235,000 Ha/IU (Table 5.1.).

Table 5.1. Average Area of Spring Wheat per Rayon (Insured Unit)

                                            Average Area Minimum crop        Maximum
                             Rayons per                                                    No Rayons    % of total
             Oblast                          per Rayon     area per        crop area per
                               Oblast                                                      >10,000 Ha    Rayons
                                                (Ha)      Rayon (Ha)        Rayon (Ha)

 Commercial Farmers
 Akmola                          19            45,846           675           151,900         17             89%
 EKO                             17            13,853           140           47,080           9             53%
 Karaganda                        9            40,224          3,400          103,680          7             78%
 Kostanay                        18            69,723          8,620          167,900         17             94%
 NKO                             13            56,522          26,780         107,780         13          100%
 Pavlodar                        11            21,664           520           108,560          7             64%
 Sub-Total                       87            41,305           140           167,900         70             80%
 Production Enterprises
 Akmola                          19            150,300          520           317,600         17             89%
 EKO                             17            10,856           160           27,780           7             41%
 Karaganda                        9            31,364            80           130,220          4             44%
 Kostanay                        18            142,661          900           369,120         16             89%
 NKO                             13            178,658         86,480         430,400         13          100%
 Pavlodar                        11            16,850           520           67,500           5             45%
 Sub-Total                       87            96,533            80           430,400         62             71%
 Overall (Commercial Farmers + Production Enterprises)
 Akmola                          19            196,146         1,195          408,240         17             89%
 EKO                             17            24,709           300           74,860          12             71%
 Karaganda                        9            71,589          3,480          190,760          8             89%
 Kostanay                        18            212,384         9,520          537,020         17             94%
 NKO                             13            235,180        116,160         517,280         13          100%
 Pavlodar                        11            38,513          1,300          176,060          6             55%
 Source: Authors

Insured Yield Coverage levels

5.41. AYII policies typically offer optional Insured Yield Coverage levels of between a maximum of
90% and a minimum of 50% of the average area-yield. In India, the NAIS has traditionally offered 3
coverage levels, 60%, 80% or a maximum of 90% of the past 5-year average yield in the IU: the decision

48
 Sees, J.R., R Black and B.J.Barnett (1997). ―Designing and Rating and Area Yield Crop Insurance Contract.
American Journal of Agricultural Economics 79 (May 1997).


                                                - 147 -
over which coverage level will apply in an IU is based on the coefficient of variation around mean yield
such that in IU‘s with low yield COV‘s the maximum 90% coverage level will be applied and in IUs with
a high COV only 60% coverage is offered. Under the US Group Risk Plan, farmers may select from
optional coverage levels of between 50% and 90% of the county average yield. In Kazakhstan it is
proposed that the insured yield for the operation of an AYII program is set as a percentage of the most
recent 5-year actual average yields from 2006 to 2010. On account of the very high yield variability in
some Oblasts and Rayons it will, however, be necessary to offer coverage levels as low as 20% or 80% of
the Rayon 5-year actual average yield in some Oblasts and Rayons. For this reason, coverage levels and
rates have been calculated for a wider range of coverage levels from 10% through to 80% of the Rayon 5-
year average yield (termed the expected yield). The Rayon spring-wheat insured yield coverage levels
from a minimum of 10% up to a maximum of 80% of the past 5-year average yield are shown by Oblast
and by Rayon in Annex 7.

Insured Values and Sum Insured

5.42. Under an AYII policy, the insured crop yields can be valued either on a costs of production
basis or on a farm-gate sale price basis. In India the NAIS commonly sets the sum insured according to
the amount of credit provided to the farmers. In the USA, the GRP permits farmers to insure their
selected coverage level yield at up to 150% of the sales‘ reference price. In Kazakhstan the sum insured
could be based on any valuation criteria requested by farmers from a costs of production valuation
through to an expected revenue based valuation: however, unlike the USA it is recommended that the
maximum unit sum insured value should not exceed 100% of the expected farm-gate sales price for the
crop. For the purposes of this AYII prototype policy design exercise, and to maintain consistency with
the MPCI policy outlines in the previous section, the past three year average September sale price of
spring wheat of KZT 3,210/Centner has been used.

5.43. The estimated sums insured for a Spring wheat AYII program assuming 100% insurance
uptake in the 6 Oblasts and an average 50% coverage level would be in the order of about KZT 212
billion (US$ 1.41 billion). The estimated sums insured for the spring wheat AYII program by Oblast and
in Total for coverage levels of between 10% and a maximum of 80% are shown in Table 5.2. Under the
assumption of 100% uptake of the AYII product for spring wheat, at the 10% coverage level the TSI
would be about KZT 42.4 billion (US$ 283 million), rising to a very significant KZT 339 billion (US$
226 billion) at the maximum 80% coverage level. It is important to recognize, however, that under a
voluntary AYII program the actual take-up rates would be much lower and the TSI would
correspondingly be much lower than the 100% modeled figures.

Rating Methodology and Indicative Premium Rates

5.44. A preliminary estimation of the technical and commercial premium rates for an AYII program
for spring wheat is presented in this report, using internationally accepted AYII crop-rating
methodology. Annex 7 presents full details of the rating methodology used in this report for establishing
the Rayon-level technical rates for an Area-Yield Index policy for spring wheat based on an analysis of
variance in the National Statistical Agency‘s 17-year Rayon-level annual sown area, production and yield
data and for coverage levels from a minimum of 10% up to a maximum of 80% of the Rayon 5 year
average yields (2006-2010). The procedure adopted involves de-trending the 17-year spring wheat actual
yields in each rayon and simulation of the estimated yield shortfall at each insured yield coverage level
from 10% to 80% over 5000 iterations (years) to derive the average pure loss cost rates for each Rayon.
The pure loss cost rates have then been smoothed and a ―security load‖ added based on the calculated
PML‘s to derive the technical rates for each rayon and each coverage level. Finally for the purposes of
this rating exercise, the technical rates have been grossed-up by 30% to derive indicative commercial
premium rates for a target 70% loss ratio. The 70% target loss ratio is designed to allow the participating


                                             - 148 -
insurers to cover their acquisition costs and administration and operating expenses and to provide a
reasonable profit margin: in practice the insurers and their reinsurers will be responsible for estimating
their costs and profit margins and in setting their target loss ratios accordingly. Since the costs of loss
assessment for AYII are considerably lower than for individual grower MPCI, the gross-up used in this
rating exercise is correspondingly lower at 30% for AYII compared to 40% for MPCI (See Section 4).

5.45. Indicative Commercial Premium Rates for AYII cover are presented in this report, but it is
stressed that these rates are illustrative and that final rating decisions will be taken by insurers and
their reinsurers. The AYII commercial premium rates for spring wheat for 70% target loss ratio are
presented in Annex 8 by Rayon for each insured yield coverage level and a summary of the average
Rayon rates in each of the 6 Oblasts is given in Table 5.2. The average percentage premium rates and
corresponding value of the premiums are also shown in Table 5.2. The analysis shows that the average
rates for spring wheat vary from a low in NKO to a high in Pavlodar and EKO and that in most Oblasts,
premium rates start to become very expensive for coverage levels of greater than 50% of the Rayon 5-
year average yield. Assuming 100% AYII scheme uptake the corresponding commercial premium for an
average 50% coverage level would be about KZT 14 billion (US$ 95 million).

5.46. In order to interpret these rates it is useful to consider a maximum premium rate that farmers
might be willing to pay assuming there are no premium subsidies of about 10%. The analysis clearly
shows in NKO where crop yields are generally very stable that AYII insurance could be offered for high
coverage levels of up to 70% at affordable premium rates of less than 10%. In Akmola and Kostanay,
farmers could be offered coverage levels up to about 60% of average Rayon yields under the 10%
maximum premium rate assumption. However, in Pavlodar where spring wheat yields are more variable
a maximum of 50% coverage only could be provided and in EKO as low as 40% coverage to avoid
exceeding the 10% commercial premium rate. Reference to Annex 7 shows exactly which maximum
cover levels could be offered for less than 10% commercial premium in each Rayon in each Oblast

Table 5.2. Estimated Total Sum Insured and indicative Commercial Premium for Spring Wheat
AYII Program and Coverage Levels 10% to 80% of Average Rayon Yield
 Total Sum Insured (KZT Million)
                               Insured Yield Coverage level (% of Rayon average expected yield)
 Oblast
                   10%       20%
                                         30%          40%           50%          60%           70%          80%
                 10,985     21,970      32,956       43,941        54,926       65,911        76,897       87,882
 Akmola
                  1,181      2,361       3,542          4,723       5,904        7,084            8,265     9,446
 EKO
                  1,346      2,691       4,037          5,383       6,729        8,074            9,420    10,766
 Karaganda
                 14,786     29,573      44,359       59,145        73,931       88,718      103,504       118,290
 Kostanay
                 13,216     26,432      39,648       52,864        66,080       79,296        92,512      105,728
 NKO
                    910      1,821       2,731          3,641       4,552        5,462            6,372     7,283
 Pavlodar
                 42,424     84,849     127,273      169,697       212,121      254,546      296,970       339,394
 Total


 Indicative Commercial Premium Rates (for target 70% loss ratio)
                               Insured Yield Coverage level (% of Rayon average expected yield)
 Oblast
                   10%       20%          30%           40%         50%           60%             70%       80%
                  0.24%     1.03%       2.43%         4.52%        7.07%       10.34%        14.26%       18.69%
 Akmola
                  0.74%     2.25%       4.50%         7.41%       10.72%       14.64%        19.03%       23.67%
 EKO
                  0.33%     1.31%       3.05%         5.58%        8.62%       12.28%        16.48%       21.09%
 Karaganda


                                              - 149 -
                   0.24%       1.01%        2.38%         4.42%       6.93%       10.17%        14.04%       18.44%
 Kostanay
                   0.17%       0.73%        1.70%         3.14%       4.85%        7.17%        10.15%       13.80%
 NKO
                   0.38%       1.50%        3.36%         5.96%       8.97%       12.62%        16.75%       21.14%
 Pavlodar
                   0.24%       0.98%        2.28%         4.20%       6.52%        9.52%        13.16%       17.35%
 Total


 Indicative Commercial Premium (70% loss ratio) - KZT (Million)
                                  Insured Yield Coverage level (% of Rayon average expected yield)
 Oblast
                    10%         20%             30%           40%      50%           60%             70%       80%
                       26        226             799          1,987    3,885        6,813        10,968      16,429
 Akmola
                        9         53             159           350       633        1,037            1,573    2,236
 EKO
                        4         35             123           301       580          991            1,552    2,271
 Karaganda
                       36        299            1,055         2,615    5,124        9,021        14,537      21,817
 Kostanay
                       23        192             675          1,662    3,206        5,682            9,390   14,594
 NKO
                        3         27              92           217       408          689            1,068    1,539
 Pavlodar
                      101        833            2,903         7,131   13,837       24,234        39,087      58,885
 Total
Source: Authors. See Annex 7 for full details
Coverage levels, Affordable Premium Rates and Demand for Voluntary AYII Insurance

5.47. Under a spring wheat AYII program for Kazakhstan the coverage level in each Rayon should
be set in accordance with i) the underlying risk exposure and frequency, and ii) the commercial
premium rate that can be afforded by the targeted farmers. In order for a crop insurance scheme to be
both affordable to farmers (premium rates of no more than 5% to 10%) and sustainable, the Insured Yield
Coverage level should be set at a level where payouts are no more frequent than about 1 in every 7 to 1 in
10 years. Where AYII coverage levels are set too high and therefore the commercial premium rates are
also too high this discourages farmers from purchasing crop insurance and does not permit the scheme to
achieve over time the economies of scale and premium volume which is necessary for the scheme to be
sustainable. On the basis of the feedback from farmers met in Kazakhstan during the focus group
meetings it appears that most consider the current premium rates charged on the obligatory LIC scheme
(average of about 2.4% subsidized rate and average of about 4.4% for the full rate assuming no
government 50% claims subsidies) as being too expensive. It was not possible in the limited time
available in these panel meetings to conduct any formal demand assessment for AYII insurance.

5.48. If a voluntary AYII program is to be launched in Kazakhstan, scheme management will first
need to conduct a detailed demand study in order to quantify farmer’s interest in purchasing voluntary
AYII and the coverage levels and premiums they are willing to pay. This demand assessment study
should be designed to provide a clear picture of farmers‘ ability and willingness to pay for voluntary AYII
insurance and the coverage levels and sum insured values they wish to insure. This study may also
provide useful feedback on the need for government premium subsidy support.

Government Support to Premium Subsidies

5.49. If government were to elect to provide premium subsidy support this would enable farmers to
either chose to insure at higher coverage levels and or to reduce their costs of purchasing AYII cover .
On the assumption that government were to provide 50% premium subsidies, this would make the AYII
premium rates much more affordable to farmers as shown in Table 5.3. The recommended AYII demand
study would also enable estimates to be made of the TSI for a pilot AYII scheme, the estimated premium


                                                    - 150 -
income and therefore the costs to government of a 50% premium subsidy (or other level of premium
subsidy to be determined).

Table 5.3. Average Indicative Commercial Premium Rates for Spring Wheat AYII Cover net of
Government 50% Premium Subsidies.

 Oblast                                                   Coverage level
                        10%        20%        30%        40%        50%       60%       70%        80%
 Akmola                 0.12%      0.51%     1.21%       2.26%     3.54%     5.17%      7.13%      9.35%
 EKO                    0.37%      1.12%     2.25%       3.71%     5.36%     7.32%      9.51%     11.83%
 Karaganda              0.16%      0.65%     1.53%       2.79%     4.31%     6.14%      8.24%     10.55%
 Kostanay               0.12%      0.51%     1.19%       2.21%     3.47%     5.08%      7.02%      9.22%
 NKO                    0.09%      0.36%     0.85%       1.57%     2.43%     3.58%      5.07%      6.90%
 Pavlodar               0.19%      0.75%     1.68%       2.98%     4.48%     6.31%      8.38%     10.57%
 Total                  0.12%      0.49%     1.14%       2.10%     3.26%     4.76%      6.58%      8.68%
Source: Authors.



Operational Considerations

5.50. For the operation of a spring wheat AYII cover, the key requirement would be to formalize the
procedures for estimating actual average yield in each Rayon where insurance is offered. It is
recommended that the insurance companies enter into a formal agreement with the National Statistical
Agency of Kazakhstan to provide the results of their crop-cutting yield estimates for each Rayon. It is
essential to minimize the time delay post harvest for the publication of these Rayon-level area yield
estimates in order to settle claims to those farmers in those Rayons where the actual average yield falls
short of the Insured Yield. A common criticism of the AYII program in India is that it often takes
between 6 and 12 months for the state-level governments to publish the results of their annual crop-
cutting experiments: farmers in the meantime need to purchase seeds and fertilizers for the next season
and to pay for land preparation and sowing activities etc and they cannot wait 12 months to receive their
indemnities. In Kazakhstan it is understood that the Statistics Agency should be able to make the results
of their crop-cutting surveys prior to the start of the next spring wheat season. It is also likely that under
an AYII scheme, insurers and their reinsurers would wish to put in place independent monitoring systems
to verify the actual average Rayon crop yields in the insured rayons.

5.51. It will also be necessary to provide farmer education and training in the operation of AYII.
Given the fact that AYII does not provide insurance and indemnity at the individual farmer level, but
according to losses at the Rayon level, it is essential that the principles of this cover are clearly explained
to farmers under a program of farmer-education and training programs.

5.52. Distribution Channels should also be investigated under any Pilot AYII program in future.
Currently in northern Kazakhstan it is understood that most crop insurance is marketed through sales
agents located in each Oblast and Rayon. Alternative channels for marketing and administering AYII
crop insurance should be invested including through farmers‘ associations and cooperatives, through rural
banks and input suppliers. The potential for crop-credit linked insurance merits investigation.

5.53. There may also be opportunities to market AYII not only to individual farmers and joint stock
companies and cooperatives, but also as a Meso-level financial protection cover for banks and input
suppliers operating in each Rayon. In this instance the cover would be designed to provide business
interruption cover to the lending institution in the event that a catastrophe drought in a named Rayon(s)


                                               - 151 -
prevents the farmers from repaying their loans therefore forcing the lender to reschedule or write-off its
loans in that Rayon(s). In addition such a cover might be attractive to regional input suppliers who
provide seeds, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals to farmers on credit against repayment at the time
of the wheat harvest.

AYII Estimates of Probable Maximum Loss and Implications for Reinsurance

5.54. Some preliminary estimates of the Probable Maximum Losses which might be expected under
an Area Yield Index program for spring wheat in Kazakhstan are presented in Figure 5.5 and Table 5.4
below. For a 50% coverage level the 1-in-a-100 year PML would be about PML would be about 24% of
TSI or a loss of KZT 51 billion (US$ 343 million) assuming 100% scheme uptake. This would be
equivalent to a loss ratio of about 370%. For the highest 80% coverage level the 1-in-a-100 year PML
would be about 45% of TSI or a loss of KZT 152.7 billion (US$ 1.02 billion) assuming 100% scheme
uptake. This would be equivalent to a loss ratio of about 259%.
Figure 5.5. Spring Wheat AYII scheme PML estimates by coverage level from 10% to 80%

               60.00%

               50.00%
                                                                                                           "10% Coverage"
               40.00%                                                                                      "20% Coverage"
 Loss Cost %




                                                                                                           "30% Coverage"
               30.00%
                                                                                                           "40% Coverage"
               20.00%                                                                                      "50% Coverage"
                                                                                                           "60% Coverage"
               10.00%
                                                                                                           "70% Coverage"

                0.00%                                                                                      "80% Coverage"
                        1




                                50




                                              100




                                                                150




                                                                                  200




                                                                                                 250


                                             Return Period (years)



Table 5.4. Estimated 1 in 100 Year PML for AYII Wheat Scheme (100% figures)
                                                                 Coverage level
Item
                             10%      20%        30%             40%        50%           60%            70%         80%
PML (% of TSI)              1.11%    4.53%     10.04%          17.40%     24.29%        31.84%         39.15%      44.99%
PML (KZT Billion )            0.5      3.8          12.8         29.5        51.5         81.0          116.3        152.7
PML (US$ Million)              3        25            85          197         343          540            775        1,018
1 in 100 year PML
                            466%     461%           440%        414%        372%         334%           297%         259%
Loss Ratio %
Source: Authors

5.55. Some indicative reinsurance pricing has been conducted for the spring wheat AYII Program.
This analysis has been conducted assuming i) aggregate reinsurance protection over the entire spring
wheat insured area assuming 100% uptake, ii) three priority levels of 70%, 100% and 150% of GNPI, iii)
that reinsurance would provide full-value protection up to 100% of TSI excess of these priority levels,
and iv) insured yield coverage levels of 10% up to 80% maximum of the Rayon 5-year average yield.
Under these assumptions Table 5.5. shows for the 100% of GNPI stop loss reinsurance option and full


                                                     - 152 -
value protection and 50% coverage level, that the stop loss pricing would be in the order of 26.09% of
GNPI or KZT 3.6 billion (US$ 24.0 million). The 100% of GNPI stop loss reinsurance option and full
value protection for the highest 80% coverage level would cost approximately 18.01% of GNPI or KZT
10.06 billion (US$ 67 million). It is worth to note that if the stop loss protection priority were lowered to
70% of GNPI the aggregate stop loss pricing would be considerably higher.

5.56. A layered risk financing program could also be developed for the AYII program involving both
private insurers and reinsurers and government of Kazakhstan as a catastrophe reinsurer. Such a risk
financing program could be structured along exactly the same lines as the stop loss reinsurance cover
illustrated in Section 4 for individual grower MPCI.

Table 5.5. Indicative Pricing for Aggregate Stop Loss Reinsurance for Kazakhstan Spring Wheat
AYII Program (Full value basis)
                                             Insured Yield Coverage Level (% of Rayon average expected yield)
            Item
                             10%           20%         30%          40%          50%            60%         70%        80%
                                        Stop Loss Reinsurance Premium (KZT Million)
     Priority (% of GNPI)

             70%                   54         349        1,046       2,295        4,297          7,112      10,733      15,157
            100%                   52         326            948     2,005        3,609          5,693       8,084      10,606
            150%                   49         295            820     1,634        2,764          4,008       5,078         5,731
                                        Stop Loss Reinsurance Premium (%GNPI49)
     Priority (% of GNPI)

             70%            53.90%        41.86%       36.04%       32.18%      31.05%          29.35%      27.46%     25.74%
            100%            51.43%        39.13%       32.66%       28.12%      26.09%          23.49%      20.68%     18.01%
            150%            48.19%        35.48%       28.25%       22.91%      19.98%          16.54%      12.99%      9.73%
Source: Authors

Voluntary AYII Crop Insurance Portfolio Financial Estimates

5.57. Some provisional portfolio financial estimates have been calculated for AYII cover for spring
wheat assuming a voluntary program and 5% incremental uptake rates per year over the next 5 years.
Under the assumptions of a 50% Insured Yield coverage level and 5% uptake rate of AYII insurance per
year over the next 5 years, the total sum insured might rise from KZT 10.6 billion in year 1 with
corresponding premium income of KZT 692 million rising after 5 years to KZT 53 billion with premium
income of KZT 3.5 billion. The costs to government of different levels of premium subsidies (ranging
from 25% to 65% of premium) are also shown (Table 5.6). It is recognized that these uptake estimates
are extremely ambitious for a voluntary insurance scheme and will need refinement following the
recommended AYII demand study.

Table 5.6. 5-Year Estimates of Voluntary AYII Uptake and Total Sum Insured and Premium
Income and Costs of Premium Subsidies (50% Coverage level)
                             AYII 50%
            Item             Coverage            AYII Crop Insurance Uptake Scenarios next 5 Years (KZT Million)
                               Level
                            100% Basis            5%               10%             15%                20%            25%
Total Sum Insured               212,121             10,606          21,212             31,818            42,424      53,030


49
     GNPI: Gross Net Premium Income


                                                     - 153 -
Commercial Premium              13,837           692           1384           2076          2767        3459
Cost of GRK Premium Subsidies
25% of Premium                   3,459           173            346            519            692        865
25% of Premium                   6,918           346            692          1,038          1,384       1,730
65% of Premium                   8,994           450            899          1,349          1,799       2,248
Probable Maximum Loss
PML 1 in 100 Years              51,516          2,576         5,152          7,727         10,303      12,879
PML 1 in250 Years               70,634          3,532         7,063         10,595         14,127      17,659
Source: Authors

Conclusions on AYII for Spring Wheat in Kazakhstan

5.58. AYII for spring wheat is technically and operationally feasible in Kazakhstan, but until further
research has been conducted into the potential demand for this cover it is very difficult to predict likely
uptake rates under a voluntary crop insurance program.

5.59. AYII for spring wheat could be underwritten either as a micro-level individual farmer cover or
as a meso level product designed to protect the season loan portfolio of agencies which are lending to
cereal producers (banks, input suppliers or MFIs) in Kazakhstan. There would be two advantages in
offering area-yield index-insurance at a meso-level or aggregate product. The first advantage would be
that basis risk would be much less of a concern than under an individual grower program. The second
advantage would be that the transaction costs involved in this coverage would be lower than for
individual farmer micro-level insurance.

5.60. Meso-level AYII cover may be an effective tool for governments to operate for small family
farm in southern Kazakhstan. This option is reviewed further in Chapter 6.

5.61. Farmers’ demand for and willingness to pay for AYII crop insurance will also have to be
studied further before any decisions are made to proceed with the design of an AYII program. This
feasibility study has identified a very low level of interest in the obligatory LIC crop insurance scheme by
farmers and it is probable that this would apply equally to voluntary crop insurance in future. It is
recommended that a formal AYII crop-insurance demand assessment study should be implemented by the
key stakeholders in Kazakhstan. India, the USA and Ukraine may provide useful lessons and experience
for the design of AYII in Kazakhstan.



Crop Weather Index Insurance

5.62. The analysis carried out in this feasibility study shows that developing WII contracts for
hedging the drought exposure of spring wheat in the North of Kazakhstan is technically feasible.
However, challenges in the possible scale of implementation, in the commercial viability and in
farmers’ interest for WII may limit the scope of application of this class of insurance products. The
details of the analysis are presented in the following sections but it is stressed that further research will be
required if the insurance companies decide to proceed with the pilot testing and implementation of this
product. It is assumed that WII would be introduced as a voluntary commercial crop insurance program.
Further details of the WII product are contained in Annex 8.



                                               - 154 -
                                                            50
Features, Advantages and Disadvantages of WII

5.63. The essential feature of weather index-based insurance (WII) is that the insurance contract
responds to an objective parameter (e.g., measurement of rainfall or temperature) at a defined weather
station during an agreed-upon time period. The parameters of the contract are set so as to correlate, as
accurately as possible, with the loss of a specific crop type suffered by the policyholder. All
policyholders within a defined area receive payouts based on the same contract and measurement at the
same station, eliminating the need for field loss assessment.

5.64. WII is best suited to weather hazards that are well-correlated over a widespread area and
where there is a close correlation between weather and crop yield. The strongest relationships typically
involve a single crop, a marked rainy season, and no irrigation.

5.65. WII is less useful where more complex conditions exist. Localized risks, such as hail, or where
microclimates exist (for example, in mountainous areas) are not suitable for WII. Similarly, the scope for
WII is limited where crop production is impacted by many or complex causes of loss or where pest and
disease are major influences on yields. For a given environment, other insurance products may be more
appropriate (such as area-yield index insurance or named-peril crop insurance).

5.66. The above mentioned conditions apply to both the climate environment and spring wheat
production of the North of Kazakhstan, making the feasibility analysis of the case in object worth
pursuing.

5.67. As for AYII, Basis Risk is the key constraint of WII. ―Basis‖ can be defined as the difference
between the loss experienced by the farmer and the payout triggered by the weather index. It could result
in a farmer experiencing a yield loss, but not receiving a payout or also in a payout being triggered
without any loss being experienced. WII works best where losses are homogenous in the defined area,
and highly correlated with the weather peril.51

5.68. WII can be retailed at different business levels. At the micro level, the policyholders (the
insurer‘s customers) are individual farmers, households, or small business owners who purchase
insurance to protect themselves from potential losses caused by adverse weather events. At the meso
level, WII can be used to cover the exposure of entities such as financial service providers, farmer
associations, input suppliers and processors from potential losses caused by adverse weather events. At
the macro level, WII can aid governments and relief agencies in development and disaster management.

International Experience with WII

5.69. The majority of WII experience has been with micro-level applications and rainfall deficit
(drought). To date, many initiatives have been piloted, but only in India has a market-based scale-up of
WII taken place. Table 5.7 provides a synoptic summary of the countries in which WII has been piloted.




50
   The illustrative material presented from Sections 5.61 to 5.71 has been adapted from Weather Index-based
Insurance in Agricultural Development: A Technical Guide , IFAD, Rome, Forthcoming.
51
   A more detailed description of the strengths and weaknesses of WII is provided in Annex 8.


                                                 - 155 -
Table 5.7 International Experience with Weather Index Insurance at Different Levels of
Aggregation

Micro level     Weather-indexed insurance for smallholder farmers:
                Examples: India, Nicaragua, Malawi, Ukraine, Thailand, Ethiopia, Kenya, Ghana, The
                Philippines, China.
                Over 30 projects in about 25 countries. Scale-up only in India

Meso level      Weather-indexed portfolio hedge for rural financial institutions that lend to poor farmers
                Examples: Peru, Ghana, Vietnam (under development)
                Programs are too new to assess scale-up and sustainability

Macro level     Weather insurance or weather-indexed contingent credit line for governments or international
                organizations
                 Examples: Ethiopia, Malawi, Mexico (both AYII and WII), Caribbean States (CCRIF) risk
                pool for hurricanes & earthquake)
                Mexico has achieved major scale-up across most states in the past decade. CCRIF is insuring
                16 Caribbean states
Source: Dick, W. (2009)


Weather and Agricultural Data for WII

5.70. WII relies on historical and current weather data that should adhere to specific quality
requirements. In order to meet requirements for a commercial WII insurance and reinsurance transaction,
it is recommended as a guideline that there be at least 20 years worth of historical daily data and that
missing data should not exceed 3 per cent of the total daily data set. In addition, reliable and trustworthy
on-going daily collection and reporting procedures should be assured.

5.71. Beyond the quality of data, it is critical to define the boundaries of the area(s) covered by the
weather station(s) so that WII contracts can be written for specific areas tied to a specific station. A
general rule of thumb is to consider a specific WII contract marketable within a 20 km radius of the
weather station; but the applicable area may be smaller or larger and case-specific evaluation must be
carried out. In general terms, the more the terrain varies, the more the acceptable distance from a station
decreases.

5.72. Agricultural data and information is the second part of the WII contract design equation. The
most relevant information to be collected is data on productivity (yield), but a clear description of the
agricultural production practices carried out in the areas of interest is also necessary. Unfortunately, the
availability of quality yield data series of adequate length and at the appropriate level of disaggregation is
not common. However, lack of quality yield data does not pose as large a problem as lack of good
weather data, since it is still possible to find alternative approaches to estimating yield variability. One
possibility is to simulate synthetic yield data series through plant-growth models.

WII Contract Design
5.73. The objective of contract design is to define a structure that effectively captures the
relationship between the weather variable and the potential crop loss and to select the index that is
most effective in providing payouts when losses are experienced, reducing basis risk as much as
possible. The set of possible index combinations is unlimited, and numerous structures have been
developed in the relatively short history of WII. One of the most commonly adopted structures is that of a


                                                 - 156 -
continuous payout triggered and limited by a cumulative measure of the weather variable (e.g., rainfall)
for each of the different crop growth stages. (See Box 5.4 and Figure 5.6).

    Box 5.4: Payout Parameters in a WII Contract
Using the drought coverage case represented in Figure 5.5 as an example, the parameters that characterize
an incremental payout structure can be defined as follows:
      Trigger: Threshold above or below which payouts are due. Payments are due when the calculated
       value of the index is below the trigger level (300mm).
      Exit: Threshold above or below which no additional incremental payout will be applied. The
       maximum payout is paid if the calculated value of the index is equal to or below the exit threshold
       (100mm).
      Tick: Incremental payout value per unit deviation increase from the trigger. With a maximum payout
       (the insured sum) of $200, a trigger of 300mm, and an exit of 100 mm, the monetary value of each
       deficit mm of rainfall below the trigger is: $200 /(300 mm-100 mm) or $1 per mm.


    Figure 5.6: Payout Structure of a WII Drought Contract

                   250
                                   Exit: 100mm
                   200
      Payout ($)




                   150

                   100
                                                                      Trigger: 300mm
                    50

                     0
                         1   51   101    151      201      251      301       351      401

Source: Authors




Weather data and infrastructure in Kazakhstan

5.74. As highlighted in Chapter 2, the World Bank feasibility study team has carried out a detailed
review of the meteorological network managed by KHM. The weather data provided by KHM has
enabled an in-depth assessment to be conducted of weather risk in the selected spring wheat production
areas and to develop WII contract structures.

5.75. The continuity of historical data provided by KHM is generally of good quality. For the
purpose of this feasibility study the World Bank has gained access to daily rainfall and minimum and
maximum temperatures from ten weather stations located in seven Rayons listed in Table 5.8 and
portrayed in Map 5.1. Table 5.8 shows that the rate of missing data is generally very low (less than 1%).



                                               - 157 -
In particular, the amount of missing rainfall observation is in line with the record of missing temperature,
and this seems an indication of an overall good management of weather sensors, as events leading to
missing observations may be caused by general problems at weather station level.

Table 5.8. Selected Weather Stations and Statistics on Available Weather Data
                                                                                                     % of Missing
                                                                                 % of Missing
                                                                                                        Daily
       Station             Rayon              Oblast           No. of Years      Daily Rainfall
                                                                                                     Temperature
                                                                                 Observations
                                                                                                     Observations
   Diyevskaya           Auliyekolski         Kostanay              26                 0%                  0%

   Kushmurun            Auliyekolski         Kostanay              26                 0.6%               0.6%

   Kostanay             Kostanayski          Kostanay              26                 0%                  0%

   Zholboldy             Aktogaiski          Pavlodar              26                 1.2%               1.2%

   Aktogai               Aktogaiski          Pavlodar              26                 0.2%               0.2%

   Mikhailovka           Zhelezinski         Pavlodar              26                 0%                  0%

   Bolkashino            Sanytausky           Akmola               26                 0%                  0%

   Schuchinskoye      Enbekshildersky         Akmola               26                 0%                  0%

   Stepnogorsk        Enbekshildersky         Akmola               26                 0.3%               0.3%

   Tolebiysky              Tasarik              Sko                29                 0%                  0%
Source: Authors on KHM data

Map 5.1. Weather stations analyzed in the Feasibility Study.




Source: Authors‘ elaborations on Google Earth
Note: Weather stations are identified by the red markers. Rayons selected for the analysis of the feasibility study are
highlighted in light grey shading (Rayon names in yellow).

5.76. Over most of the country, the seasonal precipitation cycle is of mid-range rainfall intensity with
a rather uniformly distributed cycle throughout the year. Therefore, rather than marked seasonal
distribution and erratic patterns as in many other regions of the world, average humidity conditions and
total seasonal cumulated precipitation levels seem to be the main concerns for the farming environment.
Given this hydrological pre-condition, the thermal regime also plays a relevant role. Combined hydro-




                                                  - 158 -
thermal indices are of common use in agrometeorological monitoring in Kazakhstan and have been
adopted in this study for the design of WII prototypes52.

5.77. An analysis of the last twenty-five years’ data shows that no significant rainfall trend is
observed while a weak but statistically significant temperature trend has been identified53. An important
step in the design of weather index insurance programs is to check for the existence of long term
tendencies in key atmospheric parameters that would affect the price and the effectiveness of the
contracts. A detailed trend analysis for ten weather stations in the target rayons was carried out . The
results of this analysis are presented in Appendix C of Annex 8 and shows that no significant trends exist
in annual rainfall. Instead, average annual temperature is slightly increasing in almost all of the analyzed
weather stations. Since all indices adopted for the contract design depend mainly on cumulated rainfall
and temperature trends do not seem to be affecting the developed structures, temperature de-trending was
not carried out. Nevertheless, careful handling of issues related to weather trends would be recommended
for the design of contracts for commercial use.

5.78. Drought exhibits a systemic pattern across the North of Kazakhstan. The detailed correlation
analysis carried out at station level indicates that, in the test areas selected, weather patterns may be
comparable at low scale (Rayon level) and become more heterogeneous at Oblast level (see Table 5.9).
As expected, higher levels of correlations are noted for weather stations that are closer in distance and,
roughly, in the same Rayon. In general, intra Oblast variability of weather patterns seems to be more
pronounced.

Table 5.9. Correlation Matrix for Cumulated Precipitation (January to August) in Selected
           Weather Stations
                Kostanai                                             Pavlodar                                          Akmolinsk




                                                                                                                                         Schuchinskoye
                                                                                               Mikhailovka




                                                                                                                                                         Stepnogorsk
                                                                                                                           Baklkashino
                                Kushmurun
                   Diyevskaya




                                                                         Zholboldy
                                            Kostanay




                                                                                     Aktogai




 Diyevskaya         -           72%         78%         Zholboldy         -          54%       27%           Baklkashino    -            78%             59%


 Kushmurun        66%            -          66%          Aktogai       49%            -        70%           Schuchinskoye 61%             -             59%


     Kostanay     60%           59%          -         Mikhailovka     43%           60%         -           Stepnogorsk   46%           51%              -



Source: Authors‘ analysis on KHM data.

NOTE: In each Oblast section of the table the ―shaded values‖ (top-right corner) correspond to correlations between
cumulated seasonal precipitation, while ―non-shaded values‖ (bottom-left corner) correspond to correlations
between deviations of 10-day cumulated rainfall with respect to the average seasonal cycle. Subtracting the average
seasonal cycle from the cumulated time series helps to more accurately identify the degree of homogeneity among
weather patterns in an area. Similar seasonal cycles, typical of any region, may lead to overestimating weather
patterns similarities.



52
     See following sections and also Annex 8, Appendix C.
53
     The analytical results of the trend analysis are presented in Annex 8, Appendix D


                                                                   - 159 -
5.79. While from a climatological point of view correlations between weather data collected at Rayon
level distance are very high, when referring to the potential coverage of the territory for WII purposes
different evaluation criteria must be applied. Even though Kazakhstan‘s climatic conditions seem
appropriate for relaxing the 20-25 km radius rule as the criterion for identifying the scale at which WII
can be retailed, the average distance between weather stations seems too high for assuming that the
current network could provide a comprehensive coverage of the North Kazakhstan‘s territory. As
illustrated in the maps presented in Appendix A of Annex 8, distances between contiguous weather
stations start from a minimum of 70 km, which is probably too large for implementing a full micro WII
coverage of the entire territory.

5.80. In conclusion, the excellent quality of weather data provided by KHM seems to fully comply
with the requirements that must be met for designing and operating WII. However, while this applies
for the areas surrounding the specific weather stations analyzed, an actual full scale implementation of a
micro level (farm level) WII program may be hindered by the relatively low density of the weather
network. While in the medium term, through the improvement of the weather network density, it may be
possible to overcome these structural constraints, in the short term a widespread full scale implementation
of WII at farm level does not seem to be realistic. Potential implementation of WII contracts at meso or
macro levels, that may less influenced by the density of the weather network, could have greater chances
of being rapidly implemented.

Agricultural Data

5.81. As discussed in Chapter 2, the ARKS collects annual average spring wheat yield data at Rayon
level. Given the excellent quality of the historical yield reports it was possible to use the actual official
ARKS yield data for developing WII prototypes for the selected case studies.54 The Rayon annual
average yields series that were provided span the period from 1990 (or 1991 in some cases) up to 2010.

5.82. Rayon yield reports provide average yield series for two categories of farm typology:
Production Enterprises and Commercial farms. While in the case of AYII the analysis was carried out
for the two separate classes of farms, in the case of WII, in order to identify one specific relationship
between weather and yield, the two types of records were aggregated in a single Rayon yield series.

5.83. Drastic reductions in yield performance were recorded during the early years of Kazakhstan
independence. At the end of the 1990‘s, more intensive production technology became again available
and production levels improved significantly. In order to avoid overestimating the impact of weather
elements on yield losses in the low production performance periods, data from the 1990 (or 1991) to 1998
was recentered at the mean level of the 1999-2010 period.55

5.84. As discussed in preceding sections, in order to capture the impact of weather variability on
spring wheat production in the six selected Rayons of the North Kazakhstan region, KHM provided
data from nine weather stations that were considered representative of the selected production
environments. Since not all of the selected spring wheat producing Rayons host a main weather station56,
weather measurement points from neighboring Rayons were adopted. Table 5.10 provides a list of all
production Rayons and the weather stations selected to represent their weather patterns. The maps
presented in Appendix A of Annex 8 provide a geographical representation of such information.

54
   In WII this is not a common feature as many times the developing countries in which these kind of insurance
products are tested do not have sufficiently good agricultural statistics. In such cases, information collected in the
field and/or crop modeling approaches are used to reconstruct the required crop loss history.
55
   See Annex 8, Appendix D for more details.
56
   See Annex 8, Appendix B for a full list of weather stations available in the North of Kazakhstan.


                                                  - 160 -
Table 5.10: Selected Production Rayons and Representative Weather Stations
Oblast                         Selected Rayon                 Station Selected to            Rayon in Which
                                                              Represent the Weather          Weather Stations Are
                                                              Pattern of the Selected        Actually Located
                                                              Rayon
                               Bulandinsky                    WS Bolkashino                  Sandytausky
Akmola                                                        WS Schuchinsk                  Burabaisky
                               Enbekshildersky
                                                              WS Stepnogorsk                 Stepnogorsk
                                                              WS Diyevskaya                  Auliekolsky
                               Auliekolsky
Kostanay                                                      WS Kushmurun                   Auliekolsky
                               Altynsarinsky                  WS Kostanay                    Kostanay
                                                              WS Zholboldy                   Aktogay
                               Aktogay
Pavlodar                                                      WS Aktogai                     Aktogay
                               Zhelezinsky                    WS Mihailovka                  Zhelesinsky
Source: Authors

Contract Design

5.85. The design of WII contract structures for covering the drought exposure of spring wheat
production in the North of Kazakhstan has been carried out on the basis of the methodology developed
by the Agriculture Risk Management Team (ARMT) of the Agricultural and Rural Development (ARD)
department of the World Bank57. Specific additional indexing procedures were developed for the spring
wheat environment of North of Kazakhstan.

5.86. In the contract design activities three weather indexes have been adopted: Cumulative
Precipitation, Hydrothermal Ratio (HTR), and Humidity Factor (K).

5.87. The “Cumulative Precipitation Index” can be defined as the sum of all recorded precipitation
across a specific time period and is one of the most common indexes adopted in the index approach to
insuring agricultural drought. In many cereal crops contract structures the crop life is divided in phases
(usually three) on the basis of the different water requirements of the different phenological phases.
Accordingly, specific indexes are developed for each of the crop growth phases. Given the specific
agroclimatic conditions of Kazakhstan, phase breakup did not seem to add value to the contract
performance and, therefore, a single cumulative precipitation index was adopted .58 An additional
feature of the North of Kazakhstan production environment is that precipitation preceding the sowing
period (mainly in the form of snow) may have a relevant role in crop growth59.

5.88. The two other indexes adopted in the design of contract structures for North of Kazakhstan
(HTR and K) take into account both precipitation and the contribution of temperature to plant growth.
57
  The concepts and operational details of such a methodology are described in the web-based training material
available at www.agrisktaining.org.
58
   The rationale behind this finding is quite intuitive and is related to the fact that in the North of Kazakhstan the
demand for water evaporation from the soil and plant transpiration (together defined as ―evapotranspiration‖) is
lower than in many of the semiarid countries where WII is usually implemented. Hence, water can be stored in the
soil for longer periods of time making crop growth less dependent on the conjunctural precipitation level.
59
   This is again different from the case of semi-arid countries where at the start of the crop life the soil water balance
is approximately zero and the onset of the rainfall season allows soil water reserves to be replenished. In Kazakhstan
snow melt provides significant water resources that can be stored by the soil.


                                                    - 161 -
They are commonly used in Kazakhstan for identifying drought conditions and have therefore been
selected for drought indexing purposes60.

5.89. The two indexes are both structured as a ratio between cumulated daily rainfall and cumulated
average daily temperature. The differences in the two indexes are related to the periods across which the
weather parameters are cumulated and to the weighting factors applied to the cumulated measures. The
exact specification of the HTR and K indexes are provided in Appendix C of Annex 8.

5.90. Table 5.11 summarizes the findings of the contract design activities carried out for developing
drought protection products for spring wheat in the North of Kazakhstan. As indicated in preceding
sections, daily precipitation and temperature data from nine weather stations was made available for
capturing the spring wheat yield variability of six Rayons in three Oblasts of the North of Kazakhstan.
Accordingly, nine WII prototypes, one for each of the available Rayon-weather station combinations,
were developed.

Table 5.11 Performance of Drought Index Contract Prototypes

                                                                           Average                     Maximum     Indicative
     Farm Location (Oblast-   Reference Weather Station      Overall                        Selected                            Basis Risk
                                                                            Yield                       Payout      Premium
            Rayon)               (Rayon-WS Name)           Performance                       Index                                Index
                                                                         (centner/he)                  (KZT/he)       Rate

 Kostanay-Auliekoski          Auliekoski-Kushumurum       High               9.2        HTR               19,000       13.7%          18%
 Kostanay-Altynsarin          Kostanay-Kostanay           High              11.6        Cumul Precip      24,000       16.8%          41%
 Akmola-Enbelshiderski        Stepnogorsk-Stepnogosk      High              10.8        K                 23,000       15.2%          50%
 Akmola-Enbelshiderski        Schuchinsk-Schuchinsk       Medium            10.8        K                 23,000       14.9%          86%
 Pavlodar-Aktogay             Aktogay-Aktogay             Medium             6.1        Cumul Precip      13,000       20.9%          90%
 Pavlodar-Aktogay             Aktogay-Zholbody            Medium             6.1        Cumul Precip      13,000       24.2%          86%
 Akmola-Bualindiski           Sandytauski-Bodkashino      Medium-Low         9.1        K                 13,000         3.1%         67%
 Pavlodar-Zhelesinski         Zhelenovsky-Mikhailovka     Low                8.4                              NA
 Kostanay-Auliekoski          Diyevkaya-Diyevkaya         Low                9.2                              NA
Source: Authors
Color coding:

Modelling succesful and high to medium prototype performance
Modelling succesful and medium to low prototype performance
Modelling not successful
 Note: The prototypes have been calibrated in order to trigger payouts for yield observations that fall below 65% of
the average Rayon yield level. For this reason Maximum Payout levels vary according to the different Rayon
average yields. As for the other simulations carried out in the Study, the price reference used for converting yield
into revenue losses is KZT 3,210, corresponding to the average of the reference wheat prices in 2008, 2009 and
2010.

5.91. In terms of assessing the technical feasibility of WII for spring wheat in KZ, the selected case
studies provide interesting indications. The first main finding of the contract design activity is that in
seven of the nine cases it was possible to model a drought-yield relationship. Out of these seven cases,

60
 The analysis of hydrothermal indexes draws extensively on the detailed study of S. Baisholanov (2011), An agro-
meteorological risk assessment for cereal crop production in Kazakhstan (prepared by Saken Baisholanov, former
Head of Agro Meteorology Department, Kazhydromet).


                                                        - 162 -
three structures show an excellent performance, three other structures are less performing but can still be
considered acceptable, and one is not acceptable. In two of the nine cases it was not possible to define a
meaningful drought-yield index.

5.92. The fact that for the majority of the Rayon yield-weather station combinations it was possible
to develop meaningful index structures indicates that covering spring wheat’s drought exposure in the
North of Kazakhstan through WII may be technically feasible.

5.93. Although it would be necessary to carry out specific ground work to verify the dynamics of
each specific yield-drought index relationship, the diverse performances recorded in the various cases
reflect the fact that the different weather stations may be more or less representative of the average
meteorological conditions of the wheat production areas. Should the actual location of the weather
measurement point with respect to the selected production area be the actual reason for low contract
performance, specific corrective actions can be undertaken.

5.94. In particular, developing synthetic rainfall and temperature data sets through a gridding
analysis may provide the necessary additional data reference points for carrying out the risk
assessment and contract rating procedures.61 In combination with the gridding analysis, targeted
network upgrading activities, like the installation of new automatic weather measurement equipment,
could then provide the means for settling WII contracts.

5.95. In order to provide more specific indications on the assessment of the WII contract structure
developed, two of the nine cases are presented in Figures 5.6 and 5.7.62 The two contract structures
presented can be identified as the two extremes in the range of the technically acceptable structures. All
contract structures have been developed and calibrated for a coverage level of 65% of the average Rayon
yield level.63

5.96. The contract presented in Figure 5.7 refers to the drought index structure developed for the
Altinsarin Rayon on the basis of data collected at Kostanay Weather Station. The graph shows that the
potential payouts that the index would have provided in the last twenty-five years match very closely with
the average spring wheat revenue losses suffered in the Altinsarin Rayon.

5.97. The contract presented in Figure 5.8 refers to the case of Aktogayskiy Rayon with data
collected at Aktogai Weather Station and shows a relatively less performing match between losses and
payouts. While all major drought losses are matched by a payout (the 1999 revenue loss, in yellow in the
graph, was mainly attributable to a locust attack), the size of the payouts are not exactly covering the
corresponding losses and other unnecessary payouts would have also been triggered by the contract.
Accordingly, the lower performance of the contract for the Aktogayiski case is indicated by the
significantly higher value of the ―Basis Risk Index‖ (90% vs 43% of the Altinsarin contract).64



61
  Such an approach has been initially piloted in Mexico where Agroasemex, a parastatal insurance and reinsurance
company, has developed a methodology using reanalysis techniques to obtain a simulated series of weather
variables. Similar activities are under development in various other countries.
62
     Graphical representations of the other structures are presented in Annex 8, Appendix F.
63
  It should be clarified that in WII the yield coverage level is a purely indicative measure used only for calibration
purposes. In fact, payouts are triggered only by specific realizations of the weather indexes, regardless of the actual
recorded yield level.
64
  The ―Basis Risk Index‖ was developed in order to provide an approximate indication of the mismatch between the
indicative loss suffered and the potential payouts. It is defined as the ratio between a) the sum of the absolute values


                                                    - 163 -
5.98. As indicated in Table 5.11, indicative Gross Premium Rates of the technically acceptable
contract structures range from 13.7% to 24.2%. This is a clear indication of the fact that the potential
cost of using WII contract for insuring against drought may be very high, and also that the different case
study areas have different exposure to drought risk.65

Figure 5.7: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in Altinsarin



                   25,000

                   20,000

                   15,000

                   10,000
     KZT/Hectare




                    5,000

                        0

                    -5,000

                   -10,000

                   -15,000
                                Payout: K              Payout: GTK

Rayon: Altinsarin                              Weather Station: Kostanai
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%           Index: Cumulative precipitation, 1 March - 20 July
Trigger: 95 mm                                 Exit: 30 mm
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 24,000            Reference Gross Premium: 16.8%
Basis Risk Index: 41%




of the difference between payouts and revenue losses, and b) the sum of payouts. It is important to highlight that
such an index has no actuarial value or rating function, and should be considered just as an approximate reference
for comparing the performance of different index contracts.
65
   The premium rates seem to suggest a progressively increasing exposure to drought moving from the Kostanay
Oblast, to the Akmola Oblast, and to the Pavlodar Oblast. While this seems to be in line with the other findings of
the study, it should be also considered that contracts developed for the Pavlodar Oblast cases (Aktogaiskiy) have a
relatively lower performance and that, consequently, the higher premium rates may be also factoring in the need to
provide higher payouts in order to capture all potential losses.


                                                 - 164 -
Figure 5.8: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in Aktogayskiy



                    15,000


                    10,000


                     5,000
      KZT/Hectare




                         0


                     -5,000


                    -10,000
                                                                                    Yield reduction
                                                                                    due to locust attack
                    -15,000

                              Cumulated Rain Payout                         Revenue Loss

Rayon: Aktogayskiy                                      Weather Station: Aktogai
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%                    Index: Cumulative precipitation, 1 March – 31 August
Trigger: 150 mm                                         Exit: 50 mm
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 13,000                     Reference Gross Premium: 20.9%
Basis Risk Index: 90%



5.99. While the Basis Risk Index calculated for each of the contract structures provides an
indication of the potential match between payouts and historical average yield losses in a specific area,
it should be kept in mind that basis risk has also a spatial component, generated by the deviations of
individual farm yields from the aggregate average yield on which the weather index is calibrated. This
dimension influences the ability of the contract to compensate the potential policy holder in the
appropriate measure. In this respect, in order to provide some empirical indications on the degree of
―spatial basis risk‖, the local project team collected detailed information on the 2008, 2009 and 2010 yield
performance of Commercial farms and Production Enterprises located within a radius of approximately
20 to 25 km from the Kostanay, Aktogaisky and Mikhailovka weather stations.66

5.100. Figures 5.9 and 5.10 provide an “As If” scenario in which mismatches between 2010 farm
level losses and the 2010 WII payouts are calculated for both Commercial Farms and Production
Enterprises operating in the surroundings of Kostanay weather station. Deviations for both farm

66
     The data is presented in Annex 8, Appendix G.


                                                     - 165 -
typologies oscillate between + 14% and – 30% of average yields indicating a relevant variability in the
effectiveness of compensating farm level losses.67

5.101. While it is clearly not possible to draw any statistically significant conclusion from this simple
elaboration, the exercise indicates the potential presence of a relevant basis risk dimension and it
highlights the importance of carefully evaluating of the spatial basis risk component embedded in farm
level WII products.68

Figure 5.9: Mismatch for the 2010 Payout for Commercial Farms Operating in the Range of 20 to
             25 km from Kostanay Weather Station.

                                         Commercial Farms

     20%


     10%


      0%
                 1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10
     -10%


     -20%


     -30%
Source: Authors
Note: The bars represent the positive or negative deviation between the 2010 actual loss and the 2010 WII payout
divided by the average 2008-2010 yield of each each commercial farm. The total 2010 wheat grown area covered by
the ten Commercial Farms in object amounted to 14,520 hectares.




67
   It would have been interesting to replicate a similar analysis for the Aktogay and Mikhailovka weather stations,
but the data collected in the surroundings of Aktogay is somewhat incomplete, and it has not been possible to
develop an acceptable WII contract structure for Mikhailovka. It is interesting to note that the farm level data for
Mikhailovka, also presented in Figure A7. of Annex 7, seems to be less variable than that of the Kostanay farm data.
68
   As an additional caveat, it may be useful to highlight that what may be considered acceptable in terms of basis
risk may also depend upon the actual farmers‘ experience with agricultural insurance. Farmers that have been used
to being compensated on the basis of in-field loss adjustment procedures may more sensitive to the potential impact
of basis risk.


                                                   - 166 -
Figure 5.10: Mismatch for the 2010 Payout for Individual Production Enterprises Operating in the
             Range of 20-25 km from Kostanay Weather Station.



                                    Production Enterprises
   15%
   10%
    5%
    0%
   -5%            1             2             3             4             5            6             7

 -10%
 -15%
 -20%
 -25%
 -30%
Source: Authors
Note: The bars represent the positive or negative deviation between the 2010 actual loss and the 2010 WII payout
divided by the average 2008-2010 yield of each production enterprise. The total 2010 wheat grown area covered by
the seven Production Enterprises in object amounted to 104,424 hectares


5.102. With respect to the pricing of the contract prototypes, interesting indications stem from
comparing Indicative Gross Premium Rates (also referred to as “Indicative Commercial Rates”) of
AYII and WII contract structures. Although the pricing methodologies adopted for the two different
class of insurance products are not directly comparable, some adjustments to the WII pricing parameters
may reduce the discrepancies. Hence, in the areas for which both AYII and WII products have been
developed, WII premium rates were recomputed on the basis of a 60% coverage yield scenario and a 25%
administration and expenses grossing up factor (previous WII scenarios were based on a 65% coverage
level and a 15% grossing up factor).

5.103. Table 5.12 presents the two sets of Indicative Commercial Rates for the areas covered by both
index insurance approaches. After having again highlighted that the two pricing methodologies are not
directly comparable, and that the actual commercial price of any insurance product is a function of many
business variables that can significantly modify its cost, a first element to be noted is that WII commercial
rates are higher than AYII. It is also interesting to note that differences in premium rates are roughly
related to the level of the Basis Risk Index that reflects the mismatch between WII payouts and losses: in
essence, the larger the Basis Risk Index the higher the difference between the rates, suggesting that the
cost of not being able to perfectly capture yield reductions is factored in the price of the WII contract.


                                               - 167 -
5.104. From a conceptual and operational point of view the findings highlighted in the preceding
paragraph are quite relevant. Since WII products are structured to provide a single peril coverage
against drought, and AYII policies have a larger coverage spectrum, it is clear that in order to be
competitive the cost of the drought-index products should be lower than AYII policies.

5.105. The comparison between the Commercial Rate levels of WII and AYII may be one of the
evaluation points to be considered by policymakers that need to select between the two classes of
products. Additional elements to be taken into account in such a selection process would be the spectrum
of coverage offered by the two different index products, their scale-up potential, the operational
challenges that each of the scheme faces, and the expected amount of time needed to settle payouts after
the end of the crop season.

Table 5.12 Comparative Analysis of Indicative Commercial Rates for AYII and WII
                                                   AYII                              WII
                         Reference Weather       Indicative          Indicative
         Rayon                                                                        Basis Risk Index
                              Station          Commercial Rate     Commercial Rate

Auliekolskiy           WS Kushmurun                 11.9%               12.6%                 24%
Altynsarinskiy         WS Kostanay                  10.5%               17.5%                 50%
Enbekshilderskiy       WS Stepnogorsk               11.8%               14.4%                 62%
Aktogayskiy            WS Aktogai                   16.4%               27.0%                 82%

Source: Authors

Meso, Macro and Reinsurance applications of WII in Northern Kazakhstan

5.106. As discussed above, WII can be retailed at different business levels apart from at the individual
farmer or micro level, including:

           a) meso level, to cover the exposure of entities such as financial service providers, farmer
              associations, input suppliers and processors from potential losses caused by adverse weather
              events;
           b) macro level, to aid governments and relief agencies in development and disaster
              management.69
5.107. One specific form of meso level application of WII could be the use of index contracts as a
reinsurance coverage for insurance companies involved in agricultural insurance programs. As
indicated in Chapter 4, crop insurance companies in Kazakhstan are very exposed to catastrophe losses on
their retentions and options for enhanced reinsurance protection need to be considered. GRK currently
provides free of cost proportional reinsurance protection equal to 50% of the claims to the private
insurance companies and mutuals in Kazakhstan. Currently, however, neither the private insurers nor the
mutuals have any reinsurance protection on their 50% retentions and they are therefore very exposed to
major systemic drought losses.

5.108. In this respect, WII structures similar to the ones designed in this Feasibility Study could be
used by insurance companies to hedge the drought exposure of their agricultural underwriting
portfolios. The analysis carried out in this Study shows that it is actually possible to structure drought


69
     The use of on index insurance by National or Regional governments (macro level) is discussed in Chapter 6.


                                                   - 168 -
insurance products for spring wheat production by calibrating weather indexes on Rayon level yield
records. These structures could technically form the basis of a reinsurance transaction.

5.109. From the reinsurance industry point of view, provided that the usual assurances on the
reliability and independence of weather measurement are available, WII contracts are usually
considered attractive as they are transparent, free of asymmetric information problems and easy to
manage. Hence, if appropriately structured, there should be no problem for the insurance companies of
Kazakhstan to access international reinsurance markets for WII protection.

5.110. In order to test the performance of reinsurance applications of the WII contracts developed in
this Study, a simulation scenario was carried out in which hypothetical WII reinsurance payouts and
actual indemnities paid by the current LIC scheme are compared.70 Two relevant caveats for putting
this exercises in the right perspective are the following:

     i)   Given the remarkable difference in coverage levels, in order to provide comparable payouts only
          a fraction of the LIC area covered should be reinsured with WII contracts. In this respect, the
          share of area covered under the LIC scheme to be reinsured was set at 5%.71
     ii) It should be remembered that indemnities provided by the LIC scheme are influenced by wheat
         price levels, and this clearly weakens the link between drought impact on crop production and
         LIC indemnities.72
5.111. Figure 5.11 provides a graphical representation of LIC indemnities and potential
corresponding WII reinsurance payouts. The graphical analysis shows that, although payouts and
indemnities do not match perfectly, WII structures would have provided relevant payments in the main
drought driven loss events.73 In addition, Table 5.13 shows that the total amount of WII hypothetical
payouts across the four Rayons and over the five years history are in a comparable range, indicating that,
for the examined area and time frame, the reinsurance coverage of WII would have yielded reasonable
results.

5.112. Despite the reasonable performance in terms of covering the drought exposure of insurance
companies, the financial dimension of the WII approach to reinsuring the LIC scheme seems to be out
of scale and outside any acceptable insurance logic. Table 5.14 compares the amount of premium
collected in the history of the LIC scheme in the selected Rayons and the hypothetical cost of a WII based
reinsurance coverage. It is easy to note that the cost of the WII coverage is significantly higher than the
amount of premium collected by the LIC scheme. Despite any potential difference in the pricing
methodologies adopted (including savings generated by adopting a portfolio rating approach), and any
discount offered by willing reinsurance partners, the order of magnitude of the two variables seems
difficult to reconcile.




70
   Only drought indemnities were considered.
71
   In the large majority of policies sold in the LIC scheme coverage is roughly equivalent to 10% of the yield level
while the drought index structures were calibrate to cover losses below 65% of the average yield level.
72
   When wheat price levels are high the yield threshold falls and, conversely, when wheat prices are low the yield
threshold raises. Hence, depending on the price level, a different aggregate indemnity amount for any specific
drought event may be achieved. See Chapter 3 for more details.
73
   In this framework it should be considered that, within acceptable boundaries, insurance companies may be less
financially sensitive than individual farms to loss-payouts mismatches.




                                                 - 169 -
5.113. In conclusion, the findings of this analysis show that adopting WII reinsurance in the context
of the current LIC framework would not make commercial sense and, at the same time, reinforce the
finding of Chapter 3 where it is shown that LIC is severely underrated.

5.114. Should the current LIC system be revised into an actuarially sound crop insurance scheme, a
new evaluation of the use of WII contracts for reinsurance purposes may lead to different conclusions.

Figure 5.11: LIC Indemnities and Potential Corresponding WII Reinsurance Payouts

      Aktogayskiy - WS Aktogai 2010
                                   2008
                                   2006
  Enbekshilderskiy - WS Stepnogorsk…
                                   2008
                                   2006
  Auliekolsky - WS Kushmurun 2010
                                   2008
                                   2006
       Altinsarin - WS Kostanai 2010
                                   2008
                                   2006
                                          -             20,000,000   40,000,000   60,000,000

             Indemnities paid under current LIC scheme (KZT)
              Hypotetical WII payouts with 5% of LIC area reinsured (KZT)
Source: Authors on FFAS data and own elaborations




                                              - 170 -
Table 5.13. Aggregate LIC Indemnities and Hypothetical WII Reinsurance Payouts
                                           Hypothetical
                         Indemnities paid
                                           WII payouts
                          under current
                                          with 5% of LIC
                           LIC scheme
                                          area reinsured
                             (KZT)
                                              (KZT)
           2006                 4,555,320                  -
           2007                        -                   -
           2008                78,545,211       70,351,578
           2009                13,999,618                  -
           2010                98,577,822       88,897,508
     Total 2006 - 2010       195,677,971       159,249,086

Source: Authors on FFAS data and own elaborations


Table 5.14. Indicative cost of WII reinsurance of LIC drought exposure
                                                                                               Cost of 2.5%
                                      Indicative Gross         Area insured                    of LIC area      Premium
                                                                               2.5% of LIC
                                      Premium for WII          under current                       WII         collected in
                                                                               area insured
                                      at 65% coverage           LIC scheme                     reinsurance     LIC scheme
                                                                                   (Ha)
                                       level (KZT/ Ha)             (Ha)                         coverage         (KZT)
                                                                                                  (KZT)

Altinsarin - WS Kostanai                           4,042             174,922           4,373      17,675,868    10,930,646

Auliekolskiy - WS Kushmurun                        2,637             161,783           4,045      10,665,544      6,252,665

Enbekshilderskiy - WS Stepnogorsk                  3,439              47,811           1,195       4,110,551      3,657,782
                                                   2,678
Aktogayskiy - WS Aktogai                                                 740             19          49,543        253,448
Source: Authors on FFSA data and own elaborations
Note: Given that 50% of LIC indemnities are paid by the GRK, the percentage of the LIC area to be covered by WII
reinsurance can be reduced by the same proportion and set at 2.5%.


Remote Sensing approaches to Developing Index Insurance
5.115. In order to find new approaches to offering crop insurance in Kazakhstan, solutions based on
satellite measured data could be also investigated. The use of remote sensing approaches in agricultural
risk management has become more popular in recent years. In fact, satellite data can be used to estimate
precipitation levels and reflections indexes, to measure energy balances and even to run crop models.74

5.116. The bulk of the current commercial applications of remote sensing indexes target pasture
growth through reflection indexes such as the Normalized Difference Vegetation index (NDVI) and
related transformations. However, research on the use of satellite information to estimate crop yield is
underway and could soon provide interesting results.75




74
   For more details see Hellmut et al., 2009 and Rosema et al., 2010
75
  See, for example, Rosema et al., 2010


                                                  - 171 -
5.117. Kazakhstan capacity in remote sensing technology is remarkable and specific agricultural
applications have already been developed. The entity responsible for such activities is The National
Centre of Space Research and Technologies (NCSRT) of the NSA. Among its various activities, NCSRT
operates a satellite-based crop monitoring system for the Ministry of Agriculture. The activities of the
NCRST in this field include estimation of spring soil water content; spring crop acreage estimation;
cereals sowing date control; empirical models for crop state assessment and grain production forecasting.

5.118. So far the work carried out by NCSRT has mainly had production forecasting objectives.
However, the Centre holds the expertise needed to explore the feasibility of remote sensing technology
for insurance applications that are currently adopted or under development in insurance schemes of other
countries. Hence, specific research activities aimed at exploring the potential role of NCRST in
supporting index insurance development would be recommended.

Operational considerations
5.119. Whether the GRK or the insurance industry decide to consider the adoption of WII contracts in
the agricultural insurance program of Kazakhstan, additional research to investigate the technical and
commercial specificities of WII would be recommended. Depending on the targeted application level,
the research agenda may have different objectives.

5.120. For micro level applications, a deeper understanding of the level of spatial basis risk in spring
wheat production would be required. This would provide indications on the effectiveness of WII
insurance products in compensating farm level losses, thus helping to understand the level to which
farmers would be prepared to accept payouts that are not exactly matching with losses experienced in the
field.

5.121. The most effective way to learn about the actual potential of WII products is to develop specific
pilot tests in which a WII supply chain is set up and prototype contracts are designed and retailed.
Although, as mentioned above, in the short term micro level WII is not a realistic alternative to the current
agricultural insurance scheme, developing pilot tests could be a way of providing significant insights on
possible future uses of WII. Even if not implemented at full scale, WII may still prove as an additional
risk management tool to be adopted in a case by case approach where required conditions apply.76

5.122. For a meso level application, a useful investigation would be to carry out a larger scale
analysis aimed at determining in how many Rayons the proposed cover would be technically feasible.
In fact, the analysis carried out in the Feasibility Study showed that out of the nine cases examined in the
North of Kazakhstan six resulted acceptable, one not acceptable and two not modelable.

5.123. The result of such analysis may highlight the need of generating synthetic historical data sets
for rating purposes, and of installing additional weather measurement devices for contract monitoring
and settling (see above).

5.124. In general terms, should Kazakhstan’s stakeholders decide to promote the use of WII, a
suggested development action would be to set up a technical unit or a working group to address the
technical dimension of WII program development, usually difficult to handle by individual insurance
companies. Such a working group would need to combine the expertise of agronomists,
agrometeorologists and insurance experts and would greatly benefit from orientation and support of the



76
  For example in cases of large operations or cooperative units that have good yield history and can access to
representative weather data.


                                                  - 172 -
GRK. Should the development of the coinsurance pool discussed in Chapter 4 take place, it would be the
ideal seat for a technical unit on WII.

Potential roles of the Government in enabling WII

5.125. From a WII perspective, the following list summarizes what the development community has
come to consider as useful public actions that governments and international donors can carry out to
support the development of WII programs77:

         Improve weather station infrastructure and data systems
         Fund agro-meteorological research leading to product design
         Provide technical assistance for training and product development
         Facilitate the development of an enabling legal and regulatory environment
         Facilitate access to reinsurance
         Support regular monitoring, evaluation, and impact studies

Conclusions on WII

5.126. The analysis carried out in this feasibility study indicates that WII for spring wheat in the
North of Kazakhstan is technically feasible.

5.127. Despite the positive technical findings, the actual density of the weather measurement network
does not seem to make a full scale implementation of farm level WII a realistic option in the short
term. While potential action to address this constraint may be undertaken, for the time being WII should
not be considered a readily implementable alternative to the current Loss of Investment Cost insurance
scheme.

5.128. In addition, the high potential cost of WII products developed in the analysis, together with a
preliminary analysis of “basis risk” patterns, suggest the need to carry out further research to assess
the potential interest of famers for such alternative insurance approach.

107.    WII could also find application at a reinsurance level by covering the drought exposure of
insurance companies. However, the findings of the analysis carried out in this study show that adopting
WII reinsurance in the context of the current LIC framework would not make commercial sense. Should
the current LIC system be revised into an actuarially sound crop insurance scheme, a new evaluation of
the use of WII contracts for reinsurance purposes may lead to different conclusions.




77
     See IFAD – WFP, 2010


                                              - 173 -
 Chapter 6: Tailoring Crop Insurance to the Needs of Lower Income
                         Smaller Farmers


6.1.     The final section of this report presents some of the international lessons and experience on
strategies and programs to address the agricultural risk transfer and insurance needs of small farmers
and which may be applicable to the small household mixed crop and livestock farming sectors which are
mainly located in southern Kazakhstan. This section also draws where possible on the findings of a short
visit to one wheat growing area in Tole-bi Rayon in SKO and where many farmers are either small
peasant farms or semi-subsistence household plots.


Identification of Appropriate Crop Insurance Products
Appropriate Crop Insurance Products

6.2.     To date, Crop Insurers in Kazakhstan have offered a single Loss of Investment Cost (LIC) crop
insurance product to mainly medium and large cereal producers located in northern Kazakhstan and
there has been very little debate about the appropriateness of this product to small and marginal
farmer in southern Kazakhstan. While the LIC product is suitable for grains, oil seeds and other field
row crops, it is not suitable for most horticultural and tree fruit crops and especially for crops which have
multiple or staggered harvests. Furthermore the product is designed to protect against catastrophe losses
equivalent to more than 75% of 80% of expected crop revenue and while this type of cover might be of
interest to large cereal producers it is not necessarily appropriate to small subsistence farmers‘ food
security requirements.

6.3.     There is a wide range of crop insurance product types available internationally and this report
has recommended that in future Kazakhstan’s crop insurers should aim to develop and introduce
several of these alternative crop insurance products. The products that have been recommended for
individual farmers include named peril (hail) crop insurance, MPCI loss of yield insurance and new non-
traditional index products, AYII and crop WII (Table 6.1).

6.4.    Named peril crop hail insurance may be a product which could be offered in cash crops such as
cotton if there is an appreciable hail exposure. (See also Section 5 for comments on crop hail
opportunities in Kazakhstan).

6.5.     Individual grower MPCI is often not considered suitable for small and marginal farmers
because of the very high costs of administering such policies and the associated high premium costs.
The very high cost of administering MPCI policies is associated with the need to conduct pre-inspections
in order to minimize anti-selection and moral hazard and the requirement to conduct time-consuming and
costly in-field loss assessments. While economies of scale can be achieved on large insured units with
several thousand hectares of insured crop, for small and marginal farmers the A&O costs become
prohibitively expensive for the insurance company78. In addition the very high premium rates on MPCI
policies which are often in the order of 7.5% to 15% make this cover unattractive to small farmers unless
accompanied by very heavy premium subsidies by government.


78
  This point was noted by the CEO of Kazakhstan‘s largest crop insurance company who noted that because of the
very high costs of administering crop insurance, his company could only insure large Production Enterprises.


                                               - 174 -
6.6.    AYII is considered a more appropriate product for small and marginal farmers because of the
reduced costs of administering and adjusting this type of cover. AYII does not require pre-inspections
or individual farmer and field loss assessment and is therefore a less costly product for an insurer to offer
to small and marginal farmers. India is the main country to date which has implemented AYII on a
massive scale linked to crop credit for small and marginal farmers and is currently benefitting more than
25 million producers each year. The Indian AYII program is, however, more of a socio-economic support
program: it incurs very high financial losses and is only sustainable because of very high levels of
government subsidies.

6.7.    The suitability of AYII for small farmers located in southern Kazakhstan will need careful
consideration. As noted in Section 4, one of the preconditions of AYII is that farming systems in the
defined area (Insured Unit) must be fairly homogeneous, conditions which are found in northern
Kazakhstan where rain-fed spring wheat is the main crop which is cultivated with very stand planting and
harvest dates and relatively homogeneous yields. Agricultural production in south Kazakhstan is,
however, much more diversified within each Rayon with a mix of rain-fed and irrigated agriculture and
much smaller and more scattered plots of mainly winter sown cereals, horticultural crops and cotton.
AYII for winter wheat may not be ideally suited in these regions due to the much less homogeneous
cropping systems and mix of rain-fed and irrigated agriculture.

6.8.    Crop weather-index insurance was first introduced into India 10 years ago where it was hailed
as a micro insurance product ideally suited to the needs of India’s poorest and most marginalized
farmers. WII has been promoted for small and marginal farmers in developing countries because it has
the potential to address correlated risk affordably and is operationally less challenging than traditional
individual farmer indemnity-based crop insurance products. WII has achieved some degree of scale-up
by the private insurance sector in India, and has also been introduced on a large scale as a compulsory
crop-credit insurance cover by AIC, the public sector crop insurer. WII is now being pilot tested in about
25 countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America but to date none of the micro-level individual farmer crop
insurance programs have achieved sustainability and scale-up.

6.9.     In southern Kazakhstan, WII will only be suitable for rain-fed agriculture. Given the fact that
much of agriculture is South Kazakhstan is irrigated WII policies which insure against excess or deficit
rainfall will not be suitable. For example, in Tole-bi Rayon nearly 60% of the annual sown area of
758,000 Ha is irrigated. Irrigated crops tend to be high value horticultural and vegetable crops and cotton
while cereals are gown on non-irrigated land. A further factor which will need to be studied carefully is
the drought risk exposure: in Tole-bi Rayon technical staff noted that drought was not an economic risk
exposure in rainfed crops; other factors including pests and diseases which are not indexable under a WII
policy were more important79.




79
   In this respect, the feasibility study team assessed the possibility of structuring a WII contract for the case of
winter wheat production in the neighborhood of the Tasaryk weather station in the Tole-bi Rayon. However,
information provided by local stakeholders seemed to overestimate the potential impact of drought on wheat
production in the area. On the basis of the data analyzed, the lowest yield recorded (drought related, according to
wheat producers), resulted higher than 70% of the average yield reference. With a drought risk of such a small
magnitude, drought-index insurance may not be performing significant protection tasks.



                                                  - 175 -
Table 6.1. Classification of Agricultural Crop Insurance Products
 Type of Agricultural Insurance Product         Payouts                                  Availability

 a) Indemnity Based Agricultural Insurance (insurance payouts based on the actual loss at the insured unit level)
 1.Named Peril                                  Percentage of Damage                     Widespread

 2. Multiple Peril Loss of Investment Costs     Yield Loss/loss of investment costs      Mexico, Kazakhstan, E. Europe

 3. Multiple Peril Loss of Yield                Yield Loss guarantee                     Widespread

 b) Index based Agricultural Insurance (insurance payouts based on an index measurement)
 4. Area-Yield Index                            Area-yield Loss                          USA, India, and Brazil

 5.Crop Weather Index Insurance                 Weather Index payout scale          India, México, Malawi, Canadá,
                                                                                    USA
 c) Crop Revenue Insurance (insurance payouts based on yield measurement and crop prices)
 6. Crop Revenue Insurance (CRI)                Yield and Price Loss                     Limited to USA
Source: World Bank, 2009

Farmer Segmentation and Crop Insurance

6.10. Individual farmer crop insurance is a tool that is most effective when the farmer is a
commercial producer who grows a crop(s) for sale and where the farmer invests in purchased inputs
and services often using formal credit. Where the farmer is a commercial producer and uses credit to
purchase seeds and fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, the farmer faces a financial risk in the event
of adverse climatic conditions leading to crop failure and risk transfer through the purchasing of crop
insurance is often justified. For large commercial crop producers, individual grower MPCI and or named
peril crop insurance may be a suitable product (Figure 6.1).

6.11. Individual farmer crop insurance is a risk management tool that is often appropriate for
commercial and semi-commercial farmers. In Kazakhstan the private insurers are targeting the larger
commercial agribusiness enterprises because of the lowered unit costs of dealing with these farmers and
the higher premium volume generated by each bound risk.

6.12. The insurance companies, however, face major challenges in implementing crop insurance to
the smaller semi-commercial farmers on an individual farmer by farmer basis because of the very high
costs of delivery and administration of insurance on small farm units . In Kazakhstan the farmers‘
mutual crop insurance associations‘ main client base is the small to medium farmers and given the
mutual‘s low overhead costs and proximity to their members they are much better placed than the private
companies to implement crop insurance with the smaller commercial and semi-commercial farmers. For
these smaller semi commercial farmers, index insurance (both AYII and WII) may be a more viable
solution than traditional MPCI (Figure 6.1.)

6.13. Traditional Individual farmer crop insurance is a risk management tool that is often
appropriate for commercial and semi-commercial farmers. Traditional individual farmer crop
insurance cannot provide solutions for subsistence farmers. There is much evidence today that
traditional individual farmer multiple peril crop insurance (MPCI) does not work for small and marginal
farmers and usually ends up being heavily subsidized by governments. For most small subsistence
farmers producing food crops for on-farm family consumption, crop insurance is a luxury few of them
can afford, hence governments‘ intervention to make crop insurance more affordable through premium
subsidies. In Kazakhstan crop insurance is unlikely to be a useful intervention for the very small rural
households were these are mainly subsistence producers.



                                                    - 176 -
6.14. For subsistence farmers it may be much more cost-effective for governments to examine
alternative food security mechanisms and social safety nets or, where they elect to use insurance, to
consider some form of macro-level weather index programme to permit early payments to be made in
the event of a major natural disaster. To date, several countries including Ethiopia, Malawi and Mexico
have designed macro-level rainfall deficit index covers that have been designed to provide national and or
regional governments with immediate cash liquidity following a natural disaster and to enable the
government to provide an early response.

Figure 6.1. Suitability of Crop Insurance Products for Different Types of Farmer




                                                                    •Medium/Large Farm units
                                                                    •Mechanised production
                                                   Commercial       •Access to credit
           MPCI
                      Named                         Farmers         •High levels input use
                                                                    •Produce for sale
                       Peril
                                    Index
                                  Insurance
                                                                    •Smallholder farmers
                                                                    •Some assets
                                                Semi-Commercial     •Some access to credit
                                                    Farmers         •Part consumption/part sale


                                                                     •Very small / no land
                                                   Subsistence       •Very few assets
                   Social Programs                                   •Subsistence farming
                                                     Farmers




Source: Adapted from Skees 200980

Tailoring Crop Insurance for Different Client Levels
Different Levels of Aggregation

6.15. Crop Index Insurance (including both AYII and WII) is potentially a very flexible instrument
which can be designed to provide risk transfer solutions either at the individual farmer-level (termed
Micro-level insurance) , or at an intermediate level of aggregation as a financial business interruption
protection for banks and other lending organizations such as cooperatives and MFI‘s (Meso -level
insurance) and finally this is an instrument that regional and or national governments can use to insure
against major systemic perils such as drought, windstorm, freeze and flood (Macro-level insurance).

6.16. In the past decade WII has been heavily promoted as an individual farmer micro-level
insurance product but relatively little research and development has been conducted into meso-level and
macro-level solutions. Micro-level CWII has been heavily promoted in developing countries as a low
cost (in terms of administrative costs) product which is ideally suited to the needs of resource poor
farmers and it is being implemented or pilot tested in about 25 countries in Asia, Africa and Latin


80
     Skees, J., (2009) A Policy Vision for Developing Agricultural Insurance in Vietnam.


                                                   - 177 -
America81. Given the fact this product is typically designed to insure against systemic perils of ―too much
rainfall‖ (excess rainfall/flood) and ―too little rainfall‖ (drought) the premium rates associated with WII
are, however, typically in the order of 7.5% to 10% or higher and these premium rates are generally not
affordable to the targeted resource poor farmers without government premium subsidy support. The
scale-up of private-sector WII in India has in part been achieved because of premium subsidies, while the
public sector WII program has achieved several million of policy sales today because it is linked on a
compulsory basis to seasonal credit. No other country which is operating voluntary micro-level WII has,
however, achieved commercial scale up to date82.

6.17. Crop Index Insurance can also be used as a meso-level instrument to protect rural bank
lending (loan portfolio or business interruption protection). From the bank‘s perspective, farmers who
have crop insurance protection are less likely to default on their loans in the event of major weather
induced crop failure. It also means that in the event of a major regional loss event the bank‘s loan
portfolio is protected against loss, enabling the bank to remain solvent and to reschedule farmers‘ loans
and to continue lending. Claiming on a crop insurance policy and rescheduling loans are generally much
more acceptable to a bank than having to resort to the courts to recover their debts. Since 2010, pilot
meso-level WII initiatives have been launched in Peru and Ghana which are linked to regional bank
lending to agriculture. The Peruvian product83 is a catastrophe El Nino excess rain leading to flood policy
which uses an ENSO sea surface temperature index to trigger indemnities while the Ghana product 84 for
rural banks is linked to rainfall deficit and or excess rainfall. In addition, in Vietnam85, a new innovate
flood index product linked to regional bank lending to rice farmers is awaiting launch.

6.18. At a regional or national level there also appears to be an important role for linking disaster
risk management with an ex-ante macro-level weather index or AYII insurance policy.86 To date,
several countries including Ethiopia, Malawi and Mexico have designed macro-level rainfall deficit index
covers that have been designed to provide national and or regional governments with immediate cash
liquidity following a natural disaster and to enable the government to provide an early response. Mexico
is the only country which to date has used AYII as a macro or state level crop insurance product for small
and subsistence farmers (See below for further discussion). There appears to be considerable scope for
using macro index products as a social safety net product for small subsistence farmers for whom
commercial crop insurance is not necessarily an appropriate or cost-effective mechanism.

Key Organisational and Operating Differences between Micro Insurance and Meso/Macro
Insurance

6.19. There are some key structural and operating differences between a micro-level individual
farmer crop insurance schemes and a meso-level crop insurance scheme purchased by a financial

81
   See Table 5.7 in the preceding Chapter.
82
   For an up to date review of the current status of crop and livestock WII projects around the world see WFP/IFAD
(2010). The Potential for Scale and Sustainability in Weather Index Insurance for Agriculture and Rural
Livelihoods, by P Hazell, J. Anderson, N. Balzer, A. Hastrup Clemennsen, U. Hess and F. Rispoli. Rome March
2010.
83
   Skees, J.R., and A.G. Murphy (2009). ENSO Business Interruption Index Insurance for Catastrophic Flooding in
Piura, Peru. GlobalAgRisk Inc, Lexington, KY, February 2009
84
   Stutley C. (2010). Crop Insurance Feasibility Study 2010. Innovative Insurance Products for the Adaptation to
Climate Change Project (IIPACC) Project Ghana
85
   Skees, J., and J. Hartell (2008). Developing Index Based Agricultural Insurance to Enhance Financial Markets for
Poverty Reduction in Vietnam. Vietnam: Agricultural Insurance Product Briefing Note. Ford Foundation Project.
Prepared for VIBARD Agricultural Insurance Working Group, Hanoi, Vietnam, November 2008
86
   For a comprehensive review of linkages between disaster risk reduction and index insurance see Warner et al,
2009.


                                                 - 178 -
lending institution and finally a macro-level regional or countrywide program purchased by a state or
national government. Under a micro-level program the individual insured is the farmer who pays a
premium (which may or may not receive government subsidy support) and in return receives a claims
payment in the event of a loss. Where micro-level crop insurance is linked to crop credit the lending
institution is usually listed as the first beneficiary in order to ensure that any claims settlement is used to
repay the amount of loan and then the farmer receives any balance on the claim. (Figure 6.2).

6.20. Under a Meso-level crop insurance program a financial lending institution would typically be
the insured policy holder and would purchase crop insurance to protect its crop loan portfolio against
catastrophe climatic losses. (Figure 6.2). Under the meso-level option, the lending institution (e.g. rural a
bank or MFI) would declare its total agricultural-loan acreage in each region (municipality) and the
coverage level it wished to insure under the crop insurance policy in each municipality. The bank/MFI
lending to agriculture would purchase a single aggregate policy to protect its loans and would be
responsible for premium payment. In the event of a claim in any or all insured regions, the losses would
be computed and the bank/MFI would receive an aggregate claims indemnity. The bank/MFI would then
decide whether or not it wished to pass on any of this indemnity payment to the individual farmers it
lends seasonal crop production credit to. If the bank/MFI elects to pass on some of the indemnities to
farmers it may also require them to share in the crop insurance premium costs. The major advantage from
an insurance viewpoint is that bank/MFI would be able to accept a higher degree of basis risk associated
with the proposed Area-Yield Index or CWII products than individual farmers.

6.21. Under the operation of a Macro-level Policy the insured Policy Holder is typically the state
(regional) government or national government. Under the Ethiopian and Malawian macro-level WII
rainfall deficit products the national governments were the policy holders and the covers were designed to
trigger ex-ante disaster relief payments to the national government. In Mexico the state-level
governments have since 2003 purchased state-level catastrophe drought WII cover and or state-level AYII
based Catastrophe Insurance (Seguros Catastrophicos) protection for specific target audiences of small
subsistence farmers located in specific regions and who grow specific crops: these farmers are too small
to participate in the private commercial crop insurance programs and or public-sector small farmer group
loan and crop insurance programs. The state governments are the policyholders and they pay for 100% of
the costs of premiums: in the event of claims the state governments have pre-agreed indemnity payment
formula to distribute the lump sum indemnity payments from insurers and reinsurers to the target
beneficiary families. (See below for further discussion of Mexican macro-level crop index insurance
programs).




                                               - 179 -
Figure 6.2. Organisational Structures for Micro and Meso/Macro-level Crop Insurance




Source: Dick, W. (2009)

Macro-Level Crop Index Insurance in Mexico

6.22. In 2003 Agroasemex the Mexican specialist parastatal crop reinsurer launched the first
Macro-level catastrophe drought crop insurance index insurance program. Mexico is very exposed to
catastrophe risk in agriculture including drought (80% of natural catastrophes), hurricanes (17%), excess
rain/flood (2%) and Frost (1%). Since 1995 the Federal and State governments have operated a national
natural disaster scheme under the FONDEN program which is designed to provide financial
compensation to small rural farming families who are not eligible for private crop and livestock
insurance. Between 1995 and 2003 the Federal Government and State governments paid out US$ 212
million and US$ 74 million respectively to small rural farmers under the FONDEN program. In 2003 as
part of the FAPRAC (Fund for the Care of Rural Population Affected by Weather Contingencies),
government contracted Agroasemex the parastatal agricultural insurer and reinsurer to substitute the ex-
post disaster compensation programs with an ex-ante macro-level index insurance for catastrophe climatic
perils (Agroasemex 2007).

6.23. The first Agroasemex pilot macro-index program was launched in 2003 as a drought insurance
index cover for maize and sorghum grown in Guanajuato state. The first product was based on a
drought index for 5 weather stations covering an insured area of 75,000 Ha of rainfed maize and sorghum
produced by several thousand small subsistence farmers located in Guanajuato state. In recognition of the
difficulties for insurance companies to provide insurance cover to individual farmers, Agroasemex
specifically designed an aggregate or macro-level policy which was sold to the state government which
was then responsible for setting the indemnity rules for each farmer in the insured command area. Since
2003 the catastrophe climate contingency insurance program has been massively scaled-up with the
development of index products based on i) WII covers against drought, hurricane and frost, ii) AYII
covers providing all risk loss of yield protection at a macro-level, and iii) NDVI-pasture index covers for
livestock producers. Currently 30 of the 38 state governments in Mexico purchase climate contingency
protection; for crops, 8 million hectares are insured with 3.2 million small subsistence farmers protected
under the crop insurance programs and about 4.4 million head of livestock are insured under the NDVI



                                             - 180 -
pasture drought index program. Further information on the Mexican Macro-level index programs are
presented in Box 6.1.

Box 6.1. Macro-level Catastrophic Climate Contingency Index-based Insurance for State
Governments in Mexico

    Objectives:
    • To provide disaster relief assistance to small and marginal farmers affected by natural calamities
    Legal Framework:
    • National Program for the Attention of Climatic Contingencies (PACC in Spanish) managed by MoA.
    Main Features:
    • The Program provides disaster relief assistance to the farmers from a fund that is financed through the
       payouts generated by a Macro –Level agricultural insurance policy issued to the Federal and State
       Governments.
    Target Farmers:
    • Small and marginal farmers (according to the definition provided by Ministry of Agriculture) that
       suffer from the occurrence of non-recurrent and unforeseen and unpredictable climatic losses and
       have no access to any other type of financial insurance
    Covered Perils:
        Drought; frost; hail; excessive rain; flood; cyclone and tropical storms, and tornadoes.
    Covered Items:
        Crops: Rice, maize, beans, sorghum, barley, oats, wheat, rape, soybeans, peanuts, sugarcane,
           avocadoes, cacao, citric, coco, passion fruit, coffee, apples, mangoes, nuts, pineapple, peach, and
           plantain.
    Mechanism of Operation:
       a) Catastrophe insurance:
               o Federal and state Governments liabilities arisen out from the application of the disaster
                     relief assistance to the farmers are transferred to the market through a macro level index
                     based insurance policy.
               o The macro level index based insurance policy can be based on a weather index based
                     insurance type, an AYII type, or an NDVI index insurance type.
               o The municipalities (rayons), the insured crops and covered perils are selected by the
                     Federal and Provincial Government ex-ante of the inception of the coverage and the
                     insurance premiums are paid
               o The premiums are co-financed by the Federal (75% - 90%) and the State government
                     (25% - 10%).
               o Assistance equivalent to US$ 75 per hectare up to a maximum of US$ 1,500 for annual
                     rain fed crop (20 hectares) and US$ 750 for other crops (10 hectares)
               o 1-2 months waiting period to receive the indemnity.
               o The program is insured by commercial reinsurers and reinsured in the international
                     market
       b) Direct Support:
               o This type of support is provided by the Federal and State Government when
                     catastrophic insurance is not available.
               o The occurrence of the loss event is determined by the National Commission of Water
                     (CONAGUA in Spanish)
               o The Direct Support is co-financed in equal shares by the Federal and State governments.
               o Assistance equivalent to US$ 75 per hectare up to a maximum of US$ 375 per farmer.(5
                     hectares maximum)
               o 3-5 months waiting period to receive the indemnity.
    Achievements:
        Total Insured Area: 8 million hectares
        Total number of heads insured: 4.2 million heads



                                                 - 181 -
         3.2 million farmers protected by the insurance program
         Participant States: 30/38 states participating on the catastrophe program.
    Source: Authors from SAGARPA




                                                                                  .
    Source : SAGARPA 2010.




A potential disaster relief contingency fund for WKO and Aktobe.

6.24. Given the significant financial challenges of the current LIC insurance scheme in WKO and
Aktobe, an alternative way for the GRK to provide spring wheat producers with disaster relief
assistance could be to set up a publicly supported contingency fund that would be used to compensate
farmers in case of extreme loss events. Drawing from the recent international experience, Mexico in
particular, such a fund could be ideally protected from being exhausted through a specific reinsurance
coverage that, on the basis of customized weather indexes, would trigger payouts in adverse weather
conditions and, therefore, replenish the fund. Contingency fund resources would be also used to pay for
the cost of the reinsurance coverage.

6.25. The reference weather indexes could be developed at Rayon level, so that payouts are triggered
independently by weather measurement carried out in each Rayon, or at Oblast level, with an index
based on a basket of stations that would trigger a payout for the entire Oblasts (hence, less frequently).

6.26. A critical element to be assessed would be related to the actual cost of reinsuring such a
contingency fund. Given the very high drought exposure in the Aktobe and WKO, reinsurance payouts
would also need to be frequent and therefore expensive.

6.27. Depending on the estimated overall financial exposure of this protection scheme for the WKO
and Aktobe Oblasts (see Chapter 4), and on the projected cost of a dedicated reinsurance coverage, the
GRK should evaluate whether it would be more cost-effective to purchase reinsurance on the
international markets or to guarantee the replenishment of the fund with its own resources.




                                                - 182 -
Organisational and Operational Systems for Small Farmer Crop Insurance
Low Cost Delivery Models for Small Farmers

6.28. Insurance companies throughout the World face major challenges in trying to identify cost-
effective ways of delivering and administering agricultural crop and livestock insurance programs for
small famers. In Kazakhstan this problem is accentuated because of the very low sums insured adopted
under the Obligatory Crop Insurance scheme with an average sum insured over the past five years of only
KZT 3,287/Ha (US$ 22/Ha) and an average premium rate of only 2.42% generating an average premium
of about KZT 80 per insured hectare (US$ 0.53/Ha) (Table 6.3.). Insurance companies not only need to
reserve premium to pay for normal expected claims, but also to pay for business acq uisition costs/sales‘
agents fees and their own administration and operating expenses. In Kazakhstan sales‘ agents fees are
typically 10% of original premium and the Insurer‘s own operating and administration expenses may be a
further 10% to 15% of premium. Table 6.2 shows than on very small farm units of up to 100 Ha the total
average premium earnings generated by a single policy are only about 53 Ha on average is far too low to
cover the fees of a sales agent let alone enable a commercial insurer to cover its policy A&O costs. This
problem also applies on small and medium commercial farms from 100 Ha to 1000 Ha where the total
premium of about KTZ 80,000 per policy (US$ 533/policy) would not be adequate to service the account
on an individual farmer basis. In order to offer crop insurance to small farmers, Insurance Companies
therefore need to seek alternative and less costly ways of marketing and administering their policies to
this group of farmers.

Table 6.2. Kazakhstan Average premium/Policy according to size of Insured Farm (KZT/Ha)

 Item                                       Farm Insured area (Hectares)
                       1          100
 Farm size (Ha)                               500         1,000             2,500         10,000
                      80         8,000       40,000       80,000           200,000       800,000
 Premium (KZT)
 Premium (US$)        0.53        53          267          533              1,333         5,333
Source: Authors based on average premium rate Obligatory crop insurance scheme 2005-10


6.29. In South Kazakhstan many of the small Household farmers are organised into Production
Cooperatives and rent out their land to the cooperative management to farm on a joint stock basis and
this brings economies of scale in purchasing crop insurance. Features of the joint-stock approach are
described in Box 6.2. for Berli Producers Cooperative. The land belonging to the 150 members is farmed
as a single unit and a single crop insurance policy is also purchased by the cooperative farm managers.
The Joint Stock approach to farming is apparently adopted by between 50% to 60% of all the farmer
cooperatives in Southern Kazakhstan Oblast. The extent to which this joint stock approach, to
overcoming the scale-problems for small farmer crop production and for contracting crop insurance,
could be replicated in other parts of Kazakhstan is not known.




                                              - 183 -
Box 6.2. Small Farmer Production Cooperatives in Southern Kazakhstan

In Tole-Bi Rayon small farmers in one Producer cooperative have devised their own solutions to crop production
and purchase of crop insurance. The Berli Producers Cooperative in Tole-bi Rayon was formed in 1993, it has 150
members most of whom are active farmers owning a total of 2,100 Ha of which 600 Ha are cultivated with winter
wheat. The average size of farm is about 5 ha to 10 Ha per member. Each farmer is too small to produce wheat on
their own land. The cooperative has therefore formed a joint stock company which rents the land from all the
cooperative members and then farms this on a collective basis on behalf of the members thereby enjoying economies
of scale in cultivating the land as a single aggregate farm. The members also receive a share of the profits at the end
of the season following the harvest and sale of the crops. The cooperative contracts obligatory LIC crop insurance
each year through one of the Mutual Farmer Crop Insurance Associations on its total cultivated area of wheat: for
the Mutual Insurer there are major advantages of dealing with a single entity rather than trying to insure 150
smallholder farmers with each with 5 to 10 hectares.

6.30. There are several ways in which Insurance Companies can deliver insurance products and
services to small rural households and farmers which are listed in Box 6.3.

Box 6.3. Distributional Models for Small Farmer Insurance (Microinsurance)
      Full-service model: Commercial or public insurers provide the full range of insurance services from initial
       development of the product, through distribution, to absorbing risk.
      Partner-agent model: Commercial or public insurers, together with microfinance institutions or
       nongovernmental and other organisations, collaboratively develop the product. The insurer absorbs the risk
       and the agent markets the product through its established distribution network. This lowers the cost of
       distribution and thus promotes affordability.
      Community-based model: Local communities, MFIs, NGOs, and/or cooperatives develop and distribute
       the product, manage the risk pool, and absorb the risk. As with insurance mutuals, there is no involvement
       on the part of commercial insurers.
       Provider model: Banks and other providers of microfinance can directly offer or require insurance
        contracts. These are usually coupled with credit, for example, to insure against the risk of default.
Source: ProVention 2006 (Cohen and McCord 2003)


Full Service Model

6.31. The traditional method termed the “Full-Service” model the Insurance Company assumes full
responsibility for all insurance functions would not be cost-effective for Insurers of small farmers in
Kazakhstan. Under the full service model the Insurer bears the full costs of delivering insurance to
farmers including insurance awareness and education and policy sales and marketing (either through its
own network of sales agents or commission brokers) and relies predominantly on individual client sales.
Premiums are collected individually by the company for the insured and claims notification and
settlement is managed directly by the insurer. This is the model which is typically adopted by the private
commercial crop insurers in Kazakhstan today under the Obligatory crop insurance scheme. With the
average crop insurance premiums of about KZT 80 per hectare this model would only be feasible for
large agribusiness enterprises with several thousand insured hectares. It would not be cost effective for
commercial companies to adopt the Full-Service model for smallholder agricultural insurance in
Kazakhstan.

Partner-Agent Model

6.32. In Kazakhstan there may be considerable potential for Commercial Insurers to enter into a
“Partner-Agent” relationship with rural organizations (e.g. the Cooperatives or MFIs) which have an
existing rural distribution network and a large farmer membership. Under a Partner-Agent Model, the


                                                  - 184 -
Insurance company enters into a formal contractual agreement with the Agent under which the Agent
assumes responsibility for marketing and promoting the Insurer‘s policies to its membership, for
collecting premiums from Insured‘s and paying these over to the Insurer, for notifying claims to the
Insurer, and finally in some cases for distributing claims settlement payments to the Insured‘s. Usually
the Insurer will agree to pay the Agent a commission for its services. This model would potentially
enable the private commercial insurers in Kazakhstan to deliver crop insurance more cost-effectively to
large numbers of small and medium farmers. Such a model could also be used for delivering livestock
insurance to the small mixed cropping and livestock families predominantly located in southern
Kazakhstan.

Figure 6.3. The Partner-Agent Delivery Model for Crop (and Livestock) Microinsurance

                            Partner-Agent Model for Microinsurance

                                                              Provide
                          Develop                             product,        Potential
    Mainstream            product        NGO/MFIs            claims &          Micro-
    Insurance                           as Insurance          product
                                                             education       insurance
    Companies                               Agent                              Clients
    as Partner          Underwriting
                                                              Premium

                                                                 Source: Al Hasan (2007)



6.33. The Partner-Agent approach has been successfully promoted for smallholder agricultural
insurance in recent years in Africa, Asia and Latin America and offers a potential win-win for both
parties. For the insurance company the distribution of its products through a rural institution (Agent)
offers the potential to reach large number of small farmers at low cost; for the rural institution, the
agreement enables them to expand the range of products and services they offer to their membership and
where the organization is involved in agricultural credit provision, the potential to protect their loan
portfolio with crop and livestock insurance.

Community Based Insurance Model

6.34. The Community-based Model includes all forms of informal agricultural insurance which is
underwritten by local communities, MFIs, NGO’s. This model has proved very popular in southern
Asia (Bangladesh, India, Nepal) where NGOs and MFIs have actively promoted livestock credit
insurance for members over the past 20 years. This model is in fact very similar to the Provider model
identified by Provention 2006.

6.35. Farmers’ Mutual Insurance Associations are a specific type of community-based private
agricultural insurance organization and have been heavily promoted by MOA in Kazakhstan since
2008 to underwrite the Obligatory Crop Insurance scheme. This model could potentially be very
relevant to developing smallholder agricultural crop and livestock insurance, but only if mechanisms of
providing catastrophe reinsurance can be designed. This theme is explored further below using the
Mexican Agroasemex Fondos program as a possible model which could be adapted for Kazakhstan.




                                            - 185 -
Provider Model for Microinsurance

6.36. In many parts of Asia the Microfinance institutions (MFIs) are involved in providing their
micro-lenders with microinsurance products and services which are normally linked to credit. In
Bangladesh, India and Nepal MFIs are the main source of loans for resource poor urban and rural
households. Many of the MFI‘s have also introduced their own internal insurance funds providing
limited life insurance cover, health cover, maternity cover, and in some cases crop and livestock
insurance. Most of these internal microinsurance programs are linked to credit on a compulsory basis – in
other words, members who borrow microfinance are required to purchase life insurance cover for the
duration of the loan. Farmers who borrow livestock investment loans to purchase milk cows or buffalos
are also required to insure the animals again death of the livestock due to named perils or under all risk
individual animal insurance covers. In limited cases the MFIs also offer crop insurance.

6.37. In Bangladesh the Grameen Fisheries and Livestock Foundation (GMFP) which is part of the
Grameen Bank (one of the oldest NGO/MFIs) has since 1999 operated a livestock mortality
compensation scheme termed the Livestock Insurance Fund (LIF).87. The LIF program insures against
death of the dairy cow where this is ―outside the control of the owner‖, and in effect it is an all -risks
livestock mortality policy. Insurance is provided as part of an integrated package under which Grameen
veterinary and extension staff assist in the pre inspection of the dairy cow or heifer and certify its health
status. The animal is then routinely inspected and vaccinated by Grameen-trained veterinary staff and in
the event of death the cause of loss is verified by the veterinary staff. These measures lead to greatly
reduced livestock mortality rates and the ability to levy very low premium rates for individual animal
mortality cover. The sum insured is equivalent to the amount of loan taken out to purchase the cow and
premium is currently charged at a rate of 3 percent of the value of the loan. Coverage terminates once the
loan has been repaid (usually over a maximum of two years). In addition, a fee of 2.5 percent of the value
of the loan is levied to cover the cost of veterinary services, vaccinations, and technical assistance. The
program has now operated for eight complete years during which a total of slightly over 7,000 dairy cows
have been insured with an average mortality rate of 2.8 percent. The LIF liability is totally retained
within GMPF, and the program does not carry any form of catastrophe reinsurance protection – it is
therefore very exposed to catastrophe losses (for example due to flood and or epidemic diseases. (See Box
6.4. for further details of the GMPF Livestock-credit insurance scheme)

Box 6.4. GMPF Community Livestock Development Project Livestock Insurance Fund
       Scope
           •   The Livestock Insurance Fund is a component of CLDDP Livestock Development Program
               (1999) and compensates dairy cattle owners against mortality of their cows.
           • Livestock mortality insurance is compulsory for dairy farmers who purchase cows/heifers on
               credit using CLDDP microloans.
           • Insured animals: heifers, dairy cows, beef cattle (> 70 percent dairy cows)
           • Territorial scope: mainly northwestern Bangladesh
       Features
           • Community-based program
           • Coverage: animal mortality due to disease, accident, and any cause outside the control of the
               owner
           • Insurance is provided as part of an integrated package which includes, credit, technical
               assistance, vaccines and veterinary services, concentrate feeds and fodder, and milk marketing
               services.
           • Guarantee amount (sum insured): loan amount /replacement cost
           • Premium rate: 3 percent (previously 2.5 percent) of the loan money deducted at source
           • Service fee of 2.5 percent of value of loan is charged to Livestock Development Fund (LDF) in

87
     See http://www.grameen-info.org/grameen/GrameenMotsho/index.html


                                                 - 186 -
            order to contribute toward veterinary inputs (animal inspections, vaccinations etc) and to cover
            salaries of veterinary staff.
    Results
       C) 4,250 animals insured between 2001 and 2005 with a mortality rate of 3.8% and associated loss
            ratio of 75%.
       D) 7015 animals insured between 2006 and 2008 with a mortality rate of 1.1%. Overall loss ratio
            about 45%.
    Key Challenges
        • The Grameen livestock mortality product is not recognized under the Insurance Act 1938(2008).
        • The Grameen livestock mortality product is NOT REINSURED and is exposed to catastrophe
            claims (flood, cyclone, epidemic disease).
    Source: Authors, based on information provided by Grameen Bank March 2009.


6.38. In southern Kazakhstan MFIs are very active in lending to small urban and rural households
and there may be opportunities to promote crop and livestock-credit insurance through the MFIs. In
2011 there are 1,769 registered MFIs in Kazakhstan of which 711 are actively lending to individuals and
legal entities. The total loan portfolio of the MFIs amounts to: KZT 14.894 billion personal loans to
85,379 persons and legal loans which account for a much smaller amount of the total MFI loans
equivalent to KZT 425 million to 110 legal entitles. Of the total of 711 active MFIs 570 (80%) are
classified as urban MFIs and 141 MFIs (20% of total) are rural based and their main client base is small
farmers. It is not known what proportion of the MFIs total loan portfolio is to farmers. There may,
however, be potential to examine the role of protecting the MFIs loans to small and marginal crop and
possibly livestock producers through similar credit-insurance covers to those developed by the MPFIs in
southern Asia.

Mutual Agricultural Insurance as a Solution for Small and Marginal Farmers in
Kazakhstan

6.39. The Farmer Mutual Insurance Associations have been heavily promoted by GRK since 2008
and if their financial status could be strengthened the Mutuals might be the ideal institutional vehicle
to underwrite Kazakhstan’s small and marginal crop and livestock producers. Sections 3 and 4 showed
that there are currently about 38 Farmer Mutual Crop Insurance Associations (FMCIAs) underwriting the
Obligatory LIC crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan. Currently these Mutuals have very limited
financial reserves and none are formally protected by any form of insurance or reinsurance protection.
The individual Mutuals are therefore very exposed to catastrophe losses which exceed their reserves. In
the event that claims exceed their reserves such as happened in 2010, Section 4 reported that the Mutuals
had to pro rata down each claim settlement made to their members who incurred losses. International
experience shows that when catastrophe claims occur which cannot be paid by the Mutual this often leads
to the collapse of the Mutual.

6.40. If the Mutuals are to remain solvent and to underwrite crop and or livestock insurance for
small and marginal farmers in Kazakhstan, ways of providing some form of catastrophe reinsurance
protection must be developed. In the short-term it is unlikely that the private commercial insurance
sector in Kazakhstan or international reinsurers would be willing to provide excess of loss reinsurance
protection to the Mutuals. It is likely therefore that such a program would have to be offered through the
Public Sector and given the FFSA‘s experience with administering the financial claims subsidies on the
Obligatory LIC program, the FFSA would be best placed to administer some form of excess of loss
program for the Mutual Crop Insurance Associations in Kazakhstan.




                                               - 187 -
6.41. Mexico has many years of years of experience with the operation of small farmer mutual crop
and livestock insurance through the “Fondos de Aseguramiento” (Self Insurance Funds, SIFs)
program which is reinsured by Agroasemex, the national Agricultural Reinsurance Company. The
SIFs are legally registered small-scale crop and livestock producer mutual companies whose primary
function is to access group crop and livestock credit. The Fondos program was originally conceived as a
vehicle to provide small and marginal farmers access to credit: individually these farmers were too small
to be eligible for credit, but collectively they could access group credit. As part of the agreement with the
lending banks, crop and livestock credit provision was linked on a mandatory basis to crop and livestock
insurance.

6.42. Since 1990 Agroasemex has provided advisory support and training to SIF members to form
and register SIFs. Agroasemex also assists the SIFs to access short-term and medium-term production
and investment credit, and provides technical assistance and training on crop and livestock insurance
policy design and rating and in loss assessment procedures. Agroasemex closely monitors the activities
of the SIFs on a seasonal basis.

6.43. The Fondos agricultural credit and mutual agricultural insurance program has proved
extremely popular with farmers in Mexico. In 2005 there were 176 functioning SIFs in 24 Mexican
states, of which 159 were crop producer SIFs and 17 livestock SIFs. Table 6.3 shows that in 2007 the
SIFs insured more than 1 million hectares of crops and more than 4 million head of livestock (mainly
cattle and pigs), generating MXN 647 million of premium (US$ 60 million)88. For crops, the basis cover
is an individual grower MPCI cover which either insures against loss of the costs invested in the crop or
against loss of yield: for livestock the policy is a herd-based catastrophe mortality and disease cover and
which carries very low average rates. The crop and livestock products underwritten by the SIFs are
eligible for federal government premium subsidies which average about 33% of full premium. Today
after 18 years of operation, the Mexican SIF program is a major agricultural insurance program for small
and marginal farmers.

Table 6.3. 2007 Coverage by Self Insurance Funds, Mexico


                       Insured    Area
                       (000Ha) / No.      Total Sum       Total                      Premium         Premium
     Item              Insured Animals    Insured         Premium       Average      Subsidy         Subsidy
                       (000)              (MXN mio)       (MXN Mio)     Rate (%)     (MXN Mio)       (%)
                                1,034.3        8,927.8          588.2         6.6%           194.9         33%
     Crop
     Livestock                  4,106.6       15,154.9           59.0        0.4%             19.0        32%
     Total                                    24,082.7          647.2        2.7%           213.9         33%

     Source: Agroasemex 2008



6.44. A key feature of the Mexican SIFs is the Stop Loss Reinsurance protection provided by
Agroasemex to each SIF. Under the agreement between Agroasemex and the SIFs, Agroasemex is
responsible for setting the premium rates for each crop and livestock program and then for the provision
of Stop Loss Reinsurance protection. The SIF is entitled to deduct 25% of original premium to cover its
administration and operating, A&O expenses. The SIF then retains an average 70% of the premium net
of A&O expenses, equivalent to 52.5% of gross premium to settle retained claims. The remaining
average 22.5% of gross premium is paid to Agroasemex as stop loss reinsurance premium (Figure 6.4).

88
  Agroasemex 2008: Sistema Nacional de Aseguramiento al Medio Rural: Informe Final de Operaciones al cierre
del ejercicio 2007.


                                                - 188 -
6.45. In the event of a claim, the individual SIF is responsible for settling claims up to a loss ratio of
52.5% plus any claims reserves held over from previous years. Any claim excess of this level is
reinsured by Agroasemex. Agroasemex, in turn, purchases Stop Loss Retrocession protection on the
Fondos program from international reinsurers. In any underwriting year if the SIF generates an
underwriting surplus (profit), 30% of the surplus must be added to a Special Claims Reserve for
Catastrophe events and the remaining 70% is allocated to a Social Fund which may be divided among the
SIF members to invest in income generating activities or to contribute towards crop and livestock
insurance premiums.

Figure 6.4. Agroasemex Stop Loss Reinsurance of Self Insured Funds

Allocation of Original Gross Premium

       100%
                    Agroasemex Stop Loss
                        Reinsurance
                     (22.5% of Gross Premium)

     77.50%

                                                          Allocation of Underwriting Surplus


                      SIF Retained Claims                Special Claims Reserve, Catastrophe Losses   30%

                                                          Surplus for the Social Fund                  70%
                     (52.5% of Gross Premium)




        25%
                  SIF Adminstrative Expenses
                      (25% of Gross Premium)




Source: Authors

6.46. Many of the features of the Mexican Self-Insurance Funds program and the lessons learned
over the past 20 years are relevant to the future expansion of Mutual Agricultural Insurance in
Kazakhstan. One of the key differences is that Kazakhstan does not have a public-sector organisation
like Agroasemex to provide a combination of technical assistance and most importantly, reinsurance
protection, to the Mutual insurers. This is a major issue which will need to be addressed under the
proposed changes to introduce a more market-based agricultural insurance system based on a public-
private partnership into Kazakhstan. One option for GRK to consider would be to use the FFSA as its
implementing agency to provide a combination of technical support to the Mutual crop insurance
associations and most importantly to provide formal excess of loss compensation protection to the
mutuals along similar lines to the Agroasemex model. As a starting point to introducing such a program
in Kazakhstan the Mutuals would need to be effectively regulated and would need to adopt actuarially
determined rating and standardized loss assessment systems and procedures etc.




                                                - 189 -
Identification of Operational Linkages to Bundle Programs
6.47. Agricultural insurance on its own is not a solution. Agricultural insurance can contribute
towards the stabilization of agricultural production and farm incomes in times of major production loss
and also to the modernization of agriculture through its ability to leverage access to credit thereby
enabling farmers to purchase production-enhancing technology. However, agricultural insurance cannot
be effective if it is provided in isolation. It should be promoted only when other essential agricultural
services, including training and extension, the timely availability of inputs (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides)
and efficient marketing channels for agricultural outputs, are in place. (Mahul and Stutley, 2010).

6.48. Agricultural insurance is only one tool to mitigate the risks of agricultural production, finance,
and supply chain relationships. Therefore, other measures and complementary investments are needed
to ensure risk is comprehensively managed and the value of insurance realized. In addition, without
linking these insurance programs explicitly to finance, such as bundling the insurance with agricultural
production loans or inputs, many farmers will lack both the capital to pay the insurance premium and
sufficient incentive to use scarce resources on risk management. Placing these products within
complementary systems with broader linkages can also facilitate simpler contract design, as other
mechanisms can deal more efficiently with the non insurable risks.

6.49. Experience shows that bundling agricultural insurance with rural credit provision and input
supplies could offer major advantages. The bundling of crop insurance with credit and input supplies
has been shown to provide a win-win situation for farmers, lending institutions and insurers alike. The
farmer gains access to seasonal crop credit, lending institutions are more willing to lend to small farmers
because their loans are protected by crop insurance and the insurer benefits from: (a) reduced anti-
selection, which in turn reduces the need for pre-inspections; (b) the reduced costs of marketing crop
insurance; and (c) the insurance uptake and spread of risk is much better than would normally be achieved
under a purely voluntary programme. Malawi is an example of a bundled WII and credit and input supply
and output marketing programme that is showing early promise.

6.50. In many parts of the world public or private sector credit provision to agriculture is protected
by a compulsory crop insurance policy (crop-credit insurance). The 2009 World Bank survey of
agricultural insurance provision identified that in 11 percent of the surveyed countries public- or private-
sector credit to agriculture is protected by compulsory insurance cover (Mahul and Stutley 2010).
Examples of compulsory crop-credit or livestock-credit insurance schemes in Asia include India, the
Philippines, Nepal, and Bangladesh. From an insurer‘s viewpoint there are major advantages to
automatic or compulsory crop-credit insurance: (i) anti-selection is reduced, (ii) there is less need for pre-
inspections, (iii) the costs of promoting and marketing the agricultural insurance program are reduced,
and (iv) the insurance uptake and spread of risk and premium volume is generally much higher than under
a purely voluntary program.

6.51. There are advantages for a scheme involving small farmers to be compulsory rather than
voluntary, unless other circumstances allow the insurer to avoid adverse selection and high
administrative costs. Even with a compulsory scheme there must be worthwhile incentives built in to
counter moral hazard. Clearly operating an insurance scheme together with a credit programme can offer
the level of control required by insurers reflecting the common interests of banks and insurers – if
insurance is not taken out by the farmer then he will not be eligible for a loan. Loan applicants would
also normally go through an initial appraisal procedure which will assist in evaluating the management
potential of the farmer (Dick, 1999).

6.52. Where agricultural credit and insurance are linked there is a potential for the bank or MFI to
reduce its interest rates to the extent that climatic or natural risk exposures have been transferred to


                                               - 190 -
the insurance policy. The Malawi weather based crop insurance program and the Mongolia livestock
index based insurance program are examples where the lending banks have reduced their interest rates to
those producers who agree to purchase drought index insurance.

6.53. Wherever possible agricultural insurance should be demand-led and the ideal situation is for
voluntary agreement to be reached by farmers and service providers to bundle input supply, credit and
agricultural (crop) insurance. The bundled approach is much more acceptable to farmers than
compulsory linkage of credit provision and insurance and offers a potential win-win situation for all
parties. The farmer has timely and easy access to inputs of seeds and fertilizers and credit while the input
supplier‘s and credit provider‘s financial exposures to climatic-induced crop failure and potential non-
repayment is protected.

6.54. In Kazakhstan one of the key objectives of the obligatory crop insurance law of 2004 was to
link crop insurance with the supply of credit, subsidized seeds, fertilizers and other government support
programs. The obligatory approach to crop insurance is, however, somewhat different to the voluntary
bundled approach. It is not possible to report on whether the obligatory scheme in Kazakhstan has been
successful in improving farmers‘ access to seasonal crop production credit and to the subsidized
government support programs.

Conclusions

6.55. There is no single crop insurance product that is best suited to the needs of individual small
and marginal farmers in Southern Kazakhstan. If crop insurance is to be developed for this category of
farmers, it will be necessary to study the risk exposures on a crop by crop and a location by location basis
and to select the most suitable product for that situation. For example crop-hail insurance may be suitable
for small cotton producers while AYII might work best with rain-fed wheat.

6.56. For subsistence farmers in Southern Kazakhstan, there may be potential to design macro-level
(per Rayon or Oblast) catastrophe index products along similar lines to the Mexican FAPRACC
program. Such programs could be developed both for crops and livestock.

6.57. A more detailed feasibility study will be required with the small-holder farming sector in
Southern Kazakhstan in order to provide guidelines and recommendations for the future development of
appropriate crop and livestock risk transfer solutions.




                                              - 191 -
Bibliography
Agricultural Insurance in Developing Countries: Challenges and Opportunities. Brazilian Experience in
the Field of. (2010). GFDDR: 9th Meeting of the Consultative Group (p. Ministerio de Desenvolvimento
Agrario do Brasil). Washington, DC: GFDDR.

Agroasemex 2008: Sistema Nacional de Aseguramiento al Medio Rural: Informe Final de Operaciones al
cierre del ejercicio 2007

AGROASEMEX. (2009). PROGRAMA DEL SEGURO PARA CONTINGENCIAS CLIMATOLOGICAS:
INFORME DE AVANCE AL CIERRE DEL EJERCICIO FISCAL 2009. Querétaro, México:
AGROASEMEX.

S. Baisholanov (2011), An agro-meterolological risk assessment for cereal crop production in Kazakhstan
(prepared by Saken Baisholanov, former Head of Agro Meteorology Department, Kazhydromet)

Bora, B. (2010) Subsidised Agricultural Insurance in Turkey (TARSIM). Available from:
http://www.mapfre.com/mapfrere/docs/html/revistas/trebol/n54/docs/Articulo2en.pdf

Burt, C. C. (2007). Extreme Weather; A Guide and Record Book. New York: Norton.

Celaya del Toro, V. (2010). El uso de los seguros catastróficos para atender daños por contingencias
climatológicas en el sector agropecuario de México. XI Congreso de ALASA:“El SEGURO AGRÍCOLA
EN AMÉRICA. LOGROS Y DESAFÍOS”. Cartagena de Indias, Colombia: ALASA.

CJSC (2003) Tariff Calculation Methodology for Compulsory Crop Insurance in the Republic of
Kazakhstan. Report prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakh
Actuarial Center, CJSC, November 18, 2003

FAO and World Bank. (2001). Farming Systems and Poverty: Improving Farmers' Livelihoods in a
Changing World. Rome and Washington, DC: FAO.

GFDRR. 2010. National agricultural insurance scheme in India: Making insurance markets work for
farmers. Global Fund for Disaster Risk Management (GFDRR), The World Bank, Washington, DC

Hartell, J., H. Ibarra, J.R. Skees, and J. Syroka, (2006). Risk Management in Agriculture for Natural
Hazards. Rome: ISMEA, May 2006.
Hazell P. B. R.(1992). The appropriate role of agricultural insurance in developing countries. Journal of
International Development: Vol. 4, No.6, 567-581.

Hazell, P., Pomareda, C., & Valdez, A. (1986). Crop Insurance for Agricultural Development. Baltimore
MD: The John Hopkins University Press.

Iturrioz, R. (2009). Primer Series on Insurance No.12: Agricultural Insurance. Washington, DC: The
World Bank.

Iturrioz, R. (2010). Seguro Agropecuario en América Latina : Situación Actual, Desafíos y
Oportunidades. XI Congreso de ALASA –El seguro agrícola en América. Logros y desafíos. Cartagena de
Indias, Colombia: ALASA.



                                             - 192 -
Mahul, O., & Stutley, C. (2010). Government Support to Agricultural Insurance: Challenges and Options
for Developing Countries. Washington DC: The World Bank.

Munich Re Group. (2009). World Map of Natural Hazards. Munich: Münchener Rückversicherungs-
Gesellschaft.

Rosema, A., M. de Weirdt, S. Foppes, and C. Wilczok, (2010). FESA Micro-Insurance -
Methodology, Validation, Contract Design. Delft, The Netherlands: EARS.

Skees, J.R., J.R. Black and B.J. Barnet (1997). Designing and Rating an Area Yield Crop Insurance
Contract. American Journal of Agricultural Economics 79 (May 1997) .
Skees, J., (2009) A Policy Vision for Developing Agricultural Insurance in Vietnam

The Economist Intelligence Unit Limited. (2011). Country Data- Annual Time Series. London UK: The
Economist.

Uçak H., and A. Berk (2009). Structural change in Turkish agricultural insurance policy and recent
developments. http://www.piu.org.pl/public/upload/ibrowser/ Wiadomosci%20Ubezpieczeniowe
/numer2/WU2_09ucakberk.pdf

WFP/IFAD (2010). The Potential for Scale and Sustainability in Weather Index Insurance for Agriculture
and Rural Livelihoods, by P Hazell, J. Anderson, N. Balzer, A. Hastrup Clemennsen, U. Hess and F.
Rispoli. Rome March 2010

The World Bank. (2005). Disaster Risk Management Series 5. Natural Disaster Hotspots: A Global Risk
Analysis. Washington D.C: The World Bank.

World Bank, (2005). Managing agricultural production risk –Innovations in Developing Countries.
Agriculture and Rural Development Department, ARD, The World Bank, Washington, D.C

The World Bank. (2010). Kazakhstan: Public Expenditure and Institutional Review for the Agricultural
Sector. Washington DC: The World Bank.

The World Bank. (2010). World Development Indicators . Washington D.C.: The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank.

USDA-FAS. (2010). Kazakhstan: Conmodity Inteligence Report.




                                             - 193 -
Annexes




          - 194 -
    Annex 1: Spring Wheat Production Systems in Kazakhstan and Crop Risk
    Assessment
1.       This annex provides a brief overview of Kazakhstan crop production (focusing mainly on
spring wheat, the country‘s most important agricultural commodity). The annex is based on information
from a variety of sources, including the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Statistics Agency, Kaz-
Hydromet, Commodity Intelligence Reports, the Foreign Agriculture Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture (FDAS-USDA), and interviews with farmers, farm directors and agricultural
officials in Kazakhstan.
2.       The annex provides a comprehensive assessment of the production risks affecting spring wheat
in 8 selected Oblast in North Kazakhstan. The first section of the annex starts with the description of the
main features of agricultural production in Kazakhstan and analyzes the evolution of crop production and
yields for spring wheat crops in the country in the crop years from 1994 to 2010. Then, it assesses the key
risk exposures and their impact on spring wheat crop production. The annex then describes the crop
portfolio risk model used for the risk assessment and explains the main findings of this analysis, including
the calculations of the average loss cost and the maximum probable losses.
Features of agricultural production in Kazakhstan
3.       Kazakhstan is an important producer and exporter of high-quality wheat. Average annual
production is about 13 million tons, but output is highly dependent on weather and in recent years has
fluctuated between 10 and 17 million tons. Between 2 and 8 million tons is exported annually, mainly to
destinations in Europe (including Russia and Ukraine), Northern Africa, and Central Asia. Kazakhstan
also produces around 2 million tons of barley and a small amount of oats, corn and rice, but wheat is by
far the country‘s most important agricultural commodity. The production of oilseeds (sunflower seed and
rapeseed) is increasing but total oilseed output remains well below 1.0 million tons. The country also
grows a small amount of cotton in Southern Kazakhstan, with annual lint output at around 100,000 tons.
4.       The country is endowed with land resources suitable for agricultural production. According to
the agricultural census conducted in 2006, 61 percent of Kazakhstan‘s agricultural land (estimated in 76.5
million hectares) is devoted to permanent pasture, and 32 percent (24 million hectares) is classified as
arable land which is systematically devoted to the production of field row crops. Of the remaining 7
percent of agricultural land, 3 percent is used for hay production and 4 percent is ―long fallow‖
(indicating potentially arable land that has remained uncultivated for at least several consecutive years).
Two-thirds of the arable land in the country (approximately 18 million hectares) is devoted to grain
production. The total sown area, including grains, forage crops, oilseeds and cotton crops, and food crops
decreased sharply during the late 1990‘s due to the contraction of grain and forage-crop areas. Grain area
began to rebound in 2000, and by 2010 had grown by 40 percent from the 1999 level, while forage area
essentially stabilized in the early 2000‘s after a 10-year reduction.
5.      The agricultural sector is highly heterogeneous in terms of farm structure and productivity .
The Northern region of Kazakhstan is dominated by larger farms specialized in crop production, whereas
smaller mixed farms, which include substantial meat and dairy production for the domestic market,
predominate in the South. The total agricultural land area increased by about 6% between 2003 and 2007.
The share of agricultural land farmed by agricultural enterprises has declined from 59% to 50% during the
period 2003-2007, while land farmed by commercial farms has increased from 41% to 49%. Individual
farmers have reduced their arable land slightly (by 0.14 million ha) while increasing their hayfields and
pastures (by 8.47 million ha) between 2003 and 2007. In contrast, agricultural enterprises have increased
their arable area by 0.92 million Ha and decreased their hayfields and pastures by 5.14 million Ha.
Household plots, accounting only for 1 percent of the total agricultural land, produced a consistent and
high percentage of total agricultural output - 50% between 2003 and 2007. This was mainly in the form of
meat, of which they produced over 80% of output, and milk, of which they produced over 90% of output.


                                              - 195 -
Agro-holding companies play a large role in Kazakhstan agriculture. In Kostanay Oblast over 40 percent
of the agricultural area is held by the four largest holding companies. The largest holding company
controls 900,000 hectares in Kostanay– 20 percent of the total sown area in the oblast – and owns 70
percent of the grain elevators. Table A1.1 shows the Farm Structure as of 2004.
 Table A1. 1 Farm Structure (2004)
                                                            Commercial                        Subsistence
                                           Agric. Enterprises       Individual Farms      Household Plots
        Number                                  4,600 (0.2 %)          156,000 (7.2 %)     2,000,000 (92.6%)
        Labor Force (‗000)                         326 (14%)              280 (11.7 %)           1,782 (75%)
        Agricultural Land (‗000 ha)            43,420 (56 %)           34,228 (44.3 %)            325 (0.4 %)
        Arable Land (‗000 ha)                  12,921 (59 %)            8,816 (41.2 %)              231 (1 %)
        Arable land area/ farm                      2,808.9 ha                 56.5 ha                  0.1ha
        No. employees/farm                                70.9                      1.8                    0.9
        Gross Agricultural Output (bn.             171 (24 %)               178 (25 %)             349 (50 %)
Source: KZT)
        National Statistics Committee.
6.      The main agricultural production areas are situated in the northern parts of the country.
Kazakhstan consists of 14 administrative territories, or oblasts. About 75 percent of the country‘s wheat is
produced in three oblasts in north-central Kazakhstan: Kostanay, Akmola, and North Kazakhstan. Spring
wheat occupies 95 percent of the total wheat area in Kazakhstan and virtually all of the wheat in the three
north-central oblasts. Minor grains include spring barley and oats (which are grown in the same region as
spring wheat), winter wheat (in southern Kazakhstan areas.), and rice (southern Kazakhstan, mostly in
Kzyl-Orda oblast).
7.       Wheat is the main crop in the country. The total area planted with wheat according to the
National Statistics Service (NAS) is 14.7 million hectares. Oilseed area has nearly doubled in the past five
years but still accounts for only about 6 percent of the country‘s total crop area. For instance, the area
planted with sunflower has increased almost 90 percent from 450,000 hectares in 2004 to over 850,000
hectares in 2010. Sunflowers are grown mostly in eastern Kazakhstan. Rapeseed area has increased as
well, from only 15,000 hectares in 2004 to about 200,000 hectares in 2009. Rapeseed is grown in north-
central Kazakhstan. Yields for both sunflower and rapeseed are consistently low, typically between 0.5
and 0.7 tons per hectare. Cotton is grown exclusively in SKO. Cotton yields are lower than in neighboring
countries and the Kazakh cotton production is hampered by the deterioration of the irrigation
infrastructure. The area planted with cotton doubled between 1997 and 2004, reaching a record level of
224,000 hectares and then contracted nearly as sharply over the following six years. Estimated total area
planted with cotton in Kazakhstan in 2010 is 137,000 hectares, the lowest in over ten years.
8.      Kazakhstan is a zone which is risky for agriculture. The soils of north-central Kazakhstan are
highly variable. Fertile chernozem and kashtan soils lie adjacent to highly salty solonchak soils, which are
totally unsuitable for grain production. The flat, open land lends itself to large-scale agriculture.
Individual fields frequently measure over 400 hectares (1,000 acres). Annual precipitation in the main
crop production areas of north Kazakhstan is very low. Total annual rainfall in north Kazakhstan averages
from 280 millimeters per year in Aktobe Oblast to 400 millimeters in NKO. The rainfall in North
Kazakhstan is distributed throughout the year with a peak during the months of June, July, and August.
Historically, Kazakhstan grain production has suffered from serious drought two out of every five crop
seasons. As a result, yields and production are marked by frequent and sharp year-to-year fluctuations
Map A1.1 shows the monthly distribution of rainfall for 9 selected Oblast in Kazakhstan.




                                              - 196 -
 Map A1.1. Kazakhstan: Monthly Rainfall distribution for selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan




 Source: Authors based on rainfall data provided by Kaz-hydromet.

9.       Owing to the country’s dry climate, the quality of Kazakhstan wheat is high. In years with
reasonably favorable weather and average yield, about 75 percent of the wheat crop will probably qualify
as milling quality. In general, grain quality tends to be higher in drought years; quality typically increases
as yield decreases. For instance, during the drought year 2004, 90 percent of the wheat qualified as
milling grade. Wheat quality is highest in the more southern (and drier) production regions of the main
production zone in North Kazakhstan. Protein content typically reaches 14 percent in Akmola and
southern Kostanay oblasts. In the northern tier of NKO, protein content rarely exceeds 11 percent.
10.      The cereal crop season in Kazakhstan is from May to September. Spring grain planting typically
begins in mid-May. Of the spring grains, oats are sown first, followed by wheat, then barley. Planting
typically is finished by early June. The crops advance through the reproductive stage during mid-July,
when temperatures climb to their highest levels and grains are most vulnerable to heat stress. Although
barley is planted later than wheat, it is harvested earlier. The cereal harvest begins in late August and
continues through October. Box A1.1 presents the crop calendar for the three main cereals planted in the
main grain production areas in Kazakhstan.




                                               - 197 -
 Box A1.1. Kazakhstan: Crop Calendar for North Central Kazakhstan Region




  Source: Foreign Agricultural Service – United States Department of Agriculture (FAS-USDA).

11.     The four field rotation is the most popular form of rotation in Kazakhstan. The dominant crop
rotations for fields under conventional tillage systems are essentially unchanged from Soviet times, except
that the share of wheat relative to barley and oats has expanded as planting decisions have become
increasingly market-driven. The four-field rotation is the most popular, and typically includes two
consecutive years of wheat followed by one year of barley, oats or sometimes an oilseed crop depending
on the location. Some enterprises have eliminated barley and oats from the rotation and plant nothing but
wheat. Conventional crop rotations include a year of fallow land. The purpose of the fallow year is to
preserve soil moisture. Two consecutive years of wheat almost always follow the fallow year, and the first
wheat crop enjoys the benefit of increased subsoil moisture. Assuming normal weather, yield drops by 15
to 20 percent for the second wheat crop.
12.       The introduction of moisture saving technologies, such as the reduced tillage technology, is
becoming very popular in Kazakhstan. One of the most interesting developments in Kazakhstan
agriculture in recent years has been the emergence and growth of reduced-tillage technology. There is no
strict definition of what constitutes reduced tillage or minimum tillage, but the term typically implies the
elimination of moldboard plowing and an increased reliance on chemical weed control. Under a strict no-
tillage system, neither plowing nor secondary tillage is used. According to the MoA, reduced tillage is
employed on almost 60 percent of the sown grain area in 2010, including 1.3 million hectares under no-
tillage. . The advantages of the introduction of reduced tillage from the farmers‗perspective are twofold.
First, reduced tillage preserves soil moisture and reduces (but certainly does not eliminate) the risk of
yield loss in the event of drought. Second, the adoption of reduced-tillage enables grain farmers to
eliminate the fallow year from the typical four-year crop rotation and to plant a crop every year, which
substantially increases the productivity of the field. For enterprises with old machinery the adoption of a
reduced-tillage system typically entails the replacement of outdated seeders with newer units designed to
accommodate the technology. This machinery upgrade can be prohibitively expensive, especially for
small enterprises or family farms. The MoA is interested in the promotion of the reduced tillage practices
and has set a nation-wide goal that up to 80 percent of the cropped areas should be produced under
reduced tillage practices within five years. In order to encourage farmers to increase the use of reduced
tillage practices, the MoA offers a higher direct subsidy for no-tillage wheat than for conventional-tillage
wheat.
13.       The Agricultural Machinery fleet is becoming outdated. Data from the National Statistics
Agency indicate that inventories of agricultural machinery have declined significantly over the past 20
years. Furthermore, a high portion of Kazakhstan‘s current fleet – including 77 percent of its tractors and
59 percent of its combines – was over 15 years old at the time of the 2006 agricultural census. The
statistics are somewhat misleading, however, because the data certainly include machines that are no
longer in use. As is the case in other ex-Soviet Union Republics, the overall efficiency of Kazakhstan‘s
machinery fleet is improving due chiefly to the replacement of aging grain-harvesting combines with new



                                              - 198 -
equipment. This process of improvement is being led by the Agribusiness enterprises (also termed
Production Enterprises, PE in this report). Agribusiness enterprises have the financial capacity to
purchase new machinery and, in general, have very updated tractors and combine harvesting fleets.
Conversely, for most of the Commercial Farmers (CE) who are mainly small enterprises or family farms
and who are not sufficiently financially strong, to upgrade the machinery fleet can be prohibitively
expensive. The existing gap in terms of affordability of agricultural machinery will contribute to an
increase of the existing differences in terms of crop productivity between the agribusiness enterprises
(PE) and the commercial farmers (CF).
Spring Wheat Crop Yields in Kazakhstan
14.      According to the ARKS, during the crop year 2010, the spring wheat cultivated area in
Kazakhstan almost reached 13.6 million hectares. Out of the 13.6 million hectares planted with spring
wheat in Kazakhstan, 80 percent – approximately 11 million hectares- were planted in central North
Kazakhstan (Akmola, Kostanay, and NKO). The remaining 20% of the area planted with spring wheat is
distributed through North Kazakhstan (i.e. WKO, Aktobe Oblast, Karaganda Oblast, EKO, and Pavlodar
Oblast). Map A1.2 shows the main spring wheat crop production areas in the country.
 Map A1. 2: Main Spring Wheat Crop Production areas in Kazakhstan




 Source: Authors from National Institute of Statistics

15.     Spring wheat experienced a decline in the cropped area during the1990s and a rebound during
the 2000s. The reason for the contraction in the spring wheat crop area during the 1990s was the loss of
subsidies for crop production caused by the collapse of the ex-Soviet Union. During that period much
land that used to be planted with spring wheat was set aside and converted to pasture production.
Government subsidies were re-directed only for farms that reached certain thresholds of spring wheat
yields. For instance, spring wheat fields that consistently failed to meet the threshold - typically




                                                  - 199 -
established at 6 to 7 centners89 per hectare against a national average of about 9 centners per hectare --
were taken out of grain production and converted to permanent pasture. The decline in grain area
accelerated in the mid-1990 when shrinking livestock inventories caused feed-grain demand to plummet.
During the period from 1994 to 1999, the total area with spring wheat shrank by 24 percent, or a
reduction of approximately 2.5 million hectares. The area planted with wheat started to rebound in the
2000s. By 2010, the area planted with spring wheat had increased by 65 percent compared against the
year 1999, an increase of 5.3 million hectares. The reason for the rebound in the spring wheat crop area
was the expansion of government subsidies to agriculture. Figure A1.1 shows the evolution of the sown
area of spring wheat in the 9 selected Oblasts in North Kazakhstan region.
     Figure A1.1. North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area

                               North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area
                                                   (in miillion hectares)
     16.0

     14.0

     12.0

     10.0

      8.0

      6.0

      4.0

      2.0

      0.0
                                                                                    2004




                                                                                                  2006




                                                                                                                2008
              1994

                     1995

                            1996

                                   1997

                                          1998

                                                 1999

                                                        2000

                                                               2001

                                                                      2002

                                                                             2003




                                                                                           2005




                                                                                                         2007




                                                                                                                       2009

                                                                                                                              2010
     Source: Authors based on Agency of Statistics data.

16.      Spring wheat crop yield performance has improved significantly in recent years. The spring
wheat national average yield for the period 2006-2010 was 10.1 centners per hectare, or 69 percent higher
than the spring wheat national average yield for the period 1994-1998, or 6.0 centners per hectare. The
reasons behind such improvement in spring wheat yields are linked to the general improvement in spring
wheat crop management practices. The improvement in the spring wheat crop management practices was
fueled by the expansion of government subsidies that have contributed to higher and more stable wheat
yields90. Three main spring wheat crop management improvements have driven the increase on spring
wheat crop yields in Kazakhstan in the recent years. First, the introduction and spread of reduced-tillage
technology which, according to MoA, is currently employed on more than 60 percent of the sown grain,
including 1.3 million hectares under no-tillage. Second, the crop sector has also increased its use of

89
  1 Centner equals 100 kilograms.
90
  Beginning around 2002, government support for agriculture has increased significantly in the form of reduced
prices for fuel, seed, fertilizer, and agricultural chemicals


                                                          - 200 -
fertilizers and agrochemicals. The application rates for mineral fertilizer increased nearly six-fold
between 1999 and 2010, and continues to increase due in part to the subsidized prices. Last, but not least,
the increase in the use of certified seeds has certainly contributed to the increase in spring wheat yields.
Most of the farms and enterprises in Kazakhstan use only first-reproduction seed. Crop yields have
increased faster in Agribusiness Enterprises than in Commercial Farms. While the share of agricultural
land area farmed by Agribusiness Enterprises has declined, their share of output increased slightly from
23% to 27% between 2003 and 2007. In contrast, while the share of agricultural land farmed by
Commercial Farms has increased, their share of total output declined slightly from 27% to 24%. This
suggests a higher rate of improvement in productivity in agricultural enterprises than in commercial
farms. Figure A1.2 shows the evolution of the sown area and yields of spring wheat in the 9 selected
Oblasts in North Kazakhstan region.
 Figure A1.2 North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area and Yields..

                        North Kazakhstan Region: Evolution of Spring Wheat Sown Area and Yields
                                                  (in centner/hectare)
  16.0

  14.0                                                                                                        12.7
                                                12.4
                                                               11.6                                                          11.3
  12.0                                                                                                10.8
                                                                       10.1
                                                                               9.5                                    9.4
  10.0                                                  8.7                                  8.4
          7.3                     7.5                                                 7.7
   8.0
                          6.3                                                                                                        6.4
   6.0           5.0

   4.0                                           4.0                                                 y = 1.6032ln(x) + 5.6195
                                                                                                            R² = 0.252
   2.0

   0.0
                                                                                      2004




                                                                                                       2006




                                                                                                                      2008
          1994

                 1995

                           1996

                                  1997

                                         1998

                                                 1999

                                                        2000

                                                                2001

                                                                        2002

                                                                               2003




                                                                                              2005




                                                                                                               2007




                                                                                                                              2009

                                                                                                                                     2010
                    Yield (Centner/he)                                         Yield Commercial Farmers (Centner/he)
                    Yield Agribusiness Enterprises (Centner/he)                Log. (Yield (Centner/he))

Source: Authors based on Agency of Statistics data.

17.       Spring wheat yield performance is uneven throughout the northern areas of the country . The
rayons situated in the northern parts of North Kazakhstan Oblast (NKO) and Kostanay Oblast show the
best performance in terms of spring wheat crops. In these areas, spring wheat yields, are on average
higher than 12 centners per hectare and in certain rayons can yield above 14 centners per hectare. A
second tier, comprising the rayons situated in east NKO, the northern parts of Akmola Oblast, and central
Kostanay Oblast, shows average spring wheat yields that range from 8 to 12 centners per hectare. A third
tier in terms of spring wheat productivity can be determined by grouping the rayons situated in western
areas of Pavlodar Oblast, southern areas of Akmola Oblast, north of Karaganda Oblast, south of Kostanay
Oblast, some rayons situated in north of Aktobe Oblast and north of WKO. In this third group of
rayons/oblasts, the spring wheat crops average yield at rayon level is from 4 to 8 centners per hectare. The
worst performance for spring wheat crops is observed in the southern rayons of West Kazakhstan Oblast
(WKO), Aktobe, and Karaganda Oblasts, and the south-west of Pavlodar Oblast. In the rayons situated in


                                                          - 201 -
these areas, the spring wheat rayon average yields are below 4 centners per hectare. Map A1.2
summarizes the geographical distribution of spring wheat yields at rayon level throughout the 8 selected
Oblasts in north Kazakhstan region.
     Map A1.2. North Kazakhstan: Average Spring Wheat Yields per Rayon from 2006-2010 (Centners/Hectare)




Source: Authors based on spring wheat yield data provided by Agency of Statistics.

18.      Spring wheat crop production is particularly risky in Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan has the highest
yield variation (as expressed by the coefficient of variation, COV, in national average spring wheat
yields91) of 29 percent of any major wheat producing country in the World, compared with 5 percent in
the European Union, or 8 percent in Canada. The northernmost areas of the country are less risky for
spring wheat production than the southern, western and eastern areas of the country. In the rayons
situated in NKO, north of Kostanay Oblast and northwestern areas of Akmola Oblast, the coefficient of
variation (CoV) of average annual spring wheat yields is less than 40 percent. In the rayons situated in
south of Kostanay Oblast and eastern parts of Akmola Oblast, the CoVs of spring wheat yields show
values between 40 to 50 percent. In Karaganda and western areas of East Kazakhstan Oblast (EKO) the
CoVs for spring wheat are mostly between 50 to 60 percent, except for the rayons situated in the
mountainous areas of EKO where the CoVs are between 40 to 60 percent. Pavlodar shows high CoVs for
spring wheat production at rayon level: on average the CoVs for spring wheat production for the rayons
situated in Pavlodar Oblast are between 50 to 70 percent. The oblasts situated in the western areas of the
country show the highest level of risks for spring wheat production. For instance, in WKO the average
CoV at rayon level for spring wheat is between 70 and 100 percent. Map A1.3 shows the distribution of
the CoVs for spring wheat at rayon level in the 9 selected Oblasts in North Kazakhstan.

91
  The COV is the standard deviation (SD) about mean annual yield divided by the mean yield and expressed as a
percent. A COV of > 100% shows that the SD is larger than the mean yield, or in other words crop yields are highly
variable.


                                                 - 202 -
 Map A1.3. North Kazakhstan: Coefficients of Variation of Spring Wheat Yields at Rayon Level




Source: Authors based on Agency of Statistics spring wheat data.

19.     Spring Wheat yields are less volatile for Production Enterprises (PEs) than for Commercial
Farmers (CFs). The less risky feature of spring wheat crops produced by PEs versus the risky conditions
of the spring wheat crops produced by CFs is evidenced by the lower CoVs observed for spring wheat
yields produced by PEs. The CoV analysis of spring wheat yields for the 17-year series from 1994 up to
and including 2010 shows that the observed CoV for PEs is on average 10% lower than the spring wheat
yield CoV observed for CFs. This fact is more noticeable in the main areas of production of Kostanay,
NKO, and Akmola where the observed CoVs of spring wheat yields for PEs are 16, 27, and 25 percent,
respectively, lower than those observed for CFs in these rayons. The main reason for the differences in
terms of CoVs of spring wheat yields between PEs and CFs farmers is the introduction by the PEs of
water efficient technologies like zero tillage that makes the crop perform better during the recurrent
droughts in the region.

Key risk exposures and their impact on spring wheat crop production.
20.     Agricultural production in Kazakhstan is an extremely risky economic endeavor. A large
portion of the risk associated with agricultural production in Kazakhstan is due to climate events.
Drought is the most pervasive peril affecting crop production in Kazakhstan. Reasonably higher levels
of agricultural productivity can be achieved during years of adequate rainfall, but the region is subject to
frequent drought and is considered a zone of risky agriculture. Historically, Kazakhstan‘s agricultural
production suffers from drought two out of every five crop seasons and the country is hit by severe
droughts one in every six years. As a result, the agricultural value added in Kazakhstan is marked by
frequent and sharp year-to-year fluctuations. Besides droughts, the occurrence of hailstorms and early




                                                 - 203 -
frost are also important perils affecting crop production in the country. Figure A1.3 shows the relation
between the fluctuations92 in the annual agricultural GDP growth and the occurrence of drought events.
              Figure A1.3. Kazakhstan: Historic Agricultural GDP Growth and occurrence of Droughts

                                   Kazakhstan: Agriculture Value added (annual % growth)

             29%
                                                                 21%
                                                                               17%
                                                                                                                                       13%
                                                                                                           7% 6% 9%
                                                                                      3% 2%
                                                  -1%                                       0%
                                           -5%                          -3%
                    -7%                                                                                                         -6%
                                                                                                                                              -12%
                           -21%                          -19%
     -23%                          -24%
                                    1995
      1991

             1992

                    1993

                            1994



                                           1996

                                                  1997

                                                          1998

                                                                 1999

                                                                        2000

                                                                               2001

                                                                                      2002

                                                                                             2003

                                                                                                    2004

                                                                                                           2005

                                                                                                                  2006

                                                                                                                         2007

                                                                                                                                2008

                                                                                                                                       2009

                                                                                                                                               2010
                                                             Year reported with drought

Source: Authors from World Bank. World Development Indicators (2010); The Economist Intelligence Unit
(20011); Kazakh-Hydromet (2010)

21.     Natural calamities have a strong impact on spring wheat production in Kazakhstan. Drought is
the most pervasive peril affecting rain-fed crop production in northern Kazakhstan. Early frosts at the end
of the cropping period are, for all regions considered, also an important risk. Other risks such as pests,
diseases and hail play a lesser role in yield deviation. A detailed description of each of the risks affecting
spring wheat crop production is presented below.
22.      Spring wheat yields in Kazakhstan are highly influenced by the occurrence of droughts.
Reasonably high yields can be achieved during years with adequate rainfall, but the country is subject to
frequent drought and is considered a zone of risky agriculture. Historically, Kazakhstan grain production
suffers from serious drought two out of every five or six crop seasons. As a result, yield and production
are marked by frequent and sharp year-to-year fluctuations. The aggregate annual average spring wheat
yields for the 8 selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan is highly correlated with the cumulated rainfall/snowfall
index from January to September as shown by the correlation coefficient (r) of 0.73. The strong
relationship between spring wheat average yields and cumulated rainfall between January and September

92
   Caution should be exercised at the time of the analysis of the GDP shortfalls in the years 1993, 1994, and 1995. In
the early 1990‘s, following the breakup of the Sovie t Union and the loss of massive government subsidies for State
and collective farms and livestock enterprises, there was a sharp declination in agricultural output and productivity.
Local agricultural officials began to set productivity thresholds for individual fields. Fields that consistently failed to
meet the threshold -- typically 0.6 to 0.7 tons per hectare against a national average of about 0.9 tons per hectare --
were taken out of grain production and converted to permanent pasture. The decline in grain area accelerated in the
mid-1990 when shrinking livestock inventories caused feed-grain demand to plummet, leading to a 75-percent drop
in the planted area of barley between 1993 and 1999. During these six years, total grain area in Kazakhstan
contracted at the rate of nearly 2 million hectares per year.




                                                                        - 204 -
is also evidenced at Oblast level. In this regard, all the selected Oblasts in North Kazakhstan, except
NKO and Karaganda Oblast, show correlation coefficients between annual average spring wheat yields
and cumulated rainfall/snowfall between January and September of each year that are above 0.65. Figure
A1.4 shows the relationship between spring wheat annual average yields and the total cumulated
snowfall/rainfall from January to September for the period 1994 to 2010. The yellow arrows indicate the
years with cumulated precipitation between January and September which are below the first tertile.
 Figure A1.4. North Kazakhstan: Relationship between Spring Wheat Yields and Total Cumulated
 Snowfall/Rainfall from January to September




Source: Authors from Kaz-hydromet and Agency of Statistics.




                                               - 205 -
23.     Spring wheat farmers in Kazakhstan have suffered severe losses due to the occurrence of
drought events. Between 1994 and 2010, spring wheat farmers in Kazakhstan suffered significant crop
losses on six occasions namely in: 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2004, and 2010. During the crop year 1995, a
drought affected the whole spring wheat crop production areas in north Kazakhstan, being particularly
severe in Kostanay and Karaganda Oblasts. The losses due to this event in terms of gross value of
production assuming sown area and prices as per the most recent 5-year average were KZT 74.4 billion
(26 percent reduction with respect to the expected value). In the next year, 1996, drought also affected the
country. On this occasion, a severe drought affected the western part of the country, particularly WKO
and Aktobe oblasts. At the same time, a moderate drought affected the eastern areas of the spring wheat
production zone, particularly in Pavlodar and EKO. The losses due to the occurrence of these drought
events during 1996 amounted, in terms of gross value of production assuming sown area and prices as per
the most recent 5-year average , to KZT 46.4 billion (or 15 percent reduction with respect to the expected
value of production for spring wheat for 1996). In 1997, the spring wheat production areas in Kazakhstan
were affected by drought again. This time the reduction in the total value of production was only 4
percent of the expected value (KZT 13.4 billion). In 1997 the epicenter of the drought was located in
Karaganda Oblast but also affected areas of Akmola and Pavlodar Oblast.
24.      The year 1998 was one of the worst years in terms of drought incidence in spring wheat crop
production. During this year, all the spring wheat crop production areas in the country, except for EKO,
were affected by drought. This drought was particularly severe in WKO, Aktobe, Kostanay, and Akmola
Oblast; but also affected NKO, Pavlodar and Karaganda oblasts. This event caused a major reduction in
the total spring wheat crop value of production, which suffered a reduction of 51 percent. The shortfall in
terms of value of production, assuming spring wheat sown area and prices as per the most recent 5-year
average, amounted to KZT 179.4 billion. 2004 and 2005 were also dry years. During those years the
drought affected Kostanay, NKO, EKO Akmola, (only in 2004), WKO (only in 2005), and Aktobe (only
in 2005). The total amount of losses in terms of spring wheat total value of production, assuming spring
wheat sown area and prices as per the most recent 5-year average, amounted to KZT 74 billion for 2004
(18 percent value of production shortfall with respect to the expected value for this year) and KZT 49.1
billion for 2005 (12 percent value of production shortfall with respect to the expected value for this year).
2008 was very unfavorable for spring wheat production due to autumn, spring and summer dryness..
25.     A devastating drought affected the main spring wheat crop production areas in Kazakhstan
during 2010. This drought affected mostly the oblasts situated in central north Kazakhstan (i.e.:
Kostanay, Akmola Karaganda, NKO, and Pavlodar), while the western oblasts (WKO and Aktobe) and
the easternmost Oblast (East Kazakhstan) were not so severely affected by this event. Since this drought
affected the heart of the spring wheat crop production area in Kazakhstan, it caused a huge loss in terms
of gross value of production for the crop. The actual gross value of production for spring wheat for 2010,
assuming spring wheat sown area and prices as per the most recent 5-year average, was KZT 274.4. This
value was 37%, or KZT 158.5 billion, lower than the expected gross value of production (based on an
expected yield of 10.2 centners per hectare) of KZT 432.7 billion. Figure A1.5 shows the national spring
wheat production losses due to flood from 1994 to 2010. The details for this estimation are presented in
Appendix 1.B.




                                              - 206 -
 Figure A1.5: Kazkahstan: Spring Wheat. National Losses in terms of Gross Value of Production due to
 Droughts (1994 – 2010)

                             North Kazakhstan : Evolution of Spring Wheat Gross Value of Production (GVP)
                                                               and Yields
                       600                                                                                                                                  14.0

                       500                                                                                                                                  12.0




                                                                                                                                                                   Yield (Centner/hectare)
                                                                                                                                                            10.0
   GVP (KZT billion)




                       400
                                                                                                                                                            8.0
                       300
                                                                                                                                                            6.0
                       200
                                                                                                                                                            4.0
                       100                                                                                                                                  2.0

                         0                                                                                                                                  0.0




                                                                                                                      2006
                             1994

                                    1995

                                           1996

                                                   1997

                                                           1998

                                                                  1999

                                                                         2000

                                                                                2001

                                                                                       2002

                                                                                              2003

                                                                                                       2004

                                                                                                              2005



                                                                                                                                2007

                                                                                                                                       2008

                                                                                                                                              2009

                                                                                                                                                     2010
                                                                                 Crop Year


                               Actual GVP (KZT billion)                                              GVP Losses (KZT billion)

                               Actual Yield (Centner/he)                                             Expected Yield (Centner/he)/ Expected GVP (KZT billion)




 Source: Authors, from ARKS

26.     Early autumn frost can be a problem for spring wheat crop production in some areas of
Northern Kazakhstan. The occurrence of early autumn frosts during late August and the beginning of
September may cause damage to wheat crops that were sown late in the season. Early autumn frost
damage affects wheat crops when they are in milk grain or dough phenology stages prior to harvest. The
damage occurs when the temperatures fall below – 2 Celsius degrees for more than two hours. Losses
due to early autumn frost on wheat production can be moderate to severe. Historical records of monthly
absolute minimum temperatures indicate that the return periods for frost below – 2 Celsius degrees
during the last week of September is once in 20 years for some locations in Akmola, Karaganda,
Kostanay, and Pavlodar. The probability of having an early frost increases dramatically for each week
beyond the last week of September.
27.      Hail is reported to be a moderate to severe problem in spring wheat in some parts of the
country. Many parts of Kazakhstan experience hail in early and mid summer. According to the map of
world hail incidence (Burt, 2007), Kazakhstan can be divided in three areas based on the hail occurrence
(See Map A1.4). The first area is the most hail prone in the country. The average annual number of
hailstorms for this area is estimated in the range of 4 hailstorms to 6 hailstorms per year. The area
comprises the central-east rayons of Kostanay Oblast, the southern rayons of NKO, all the rayons in
Akmola Oblast, and the northwestern rayons of Pavlodar Oblast. The second area is on the mezzanine
level in terms of hail frequency. The average annual number of hailstorms for the second area is estimated
in the range of 1 hailstorm to 3 hailstorms per year. The second area comprises Kostanay Oblast (except
for the central east rayons), northern rayons of NKO, southern rayons of Pavlodar oblast; all the rayons in
Karaganda oblast; and the eastern rayons of Aktobe oblast. The remaining areas of the country show low
frequency of occurrence of hailstorms. In such areas, the average annual number of hailstorms is less than
one. Hail in Kazakhstan is associated with major rain storms. The hail season in Kazakhstan goes from


                                                                                - 207 -
May to September, with a peak during the months from May to July. Hail is a localized peril which tends
to cause severe damage in wheat from the stage of stem elongation in mid-July until crop maturity and
harvest in late August/early September. The period in which spring wheat is most vulnerable to hail
damage does not match the period in which there is a greater frequency of hailstorms in North
Kazakhstan. As a result although hail is a recurrent phenomenon, because hail occurs relatively early in
the crop season, it does not cause much losses in spring wheat crops and farmers do not perceive this peril
as an significant risk that can affect their spring wheat crops. Table A1.2 presents the return periods in
terms of years for the occurrence of hailstorms for the different months of the year. Map A1.4 shows the
geographical distribution of the hail areas in Kazakhstan.
 Table A1.2. Kazakhstan: Monthly return period for the occurrence of hailstorms
                        Recurrence Period for Hailstorms for each month throughout the year (in years)
   Oblast       I      II     III      IV       V        VI      VII     VIII     IX        X        XI     XII
 Kostanay                                42        5        3       6        8      21        84
 Akmola                                            5        8       5       13      63
 NKO                                               7        5      11        5       7
 Pavlodar                                21        8        9       7       30      10                 63
 SKO                            11        4        3        8      11       21      42        42       42
Source: Kazakh-Hydromet Hail frequency Statistics (1990-2010)

Map A1.5. Kazakhstan: Average annual number of hailstorms




Source: (Burt, 2007)
28.     Crop pest and diseases are a serious issue for spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan.
Locust attacks are not infrequent in North Kazakhstan and the country has suffered recurrent crop and
pasture damages from locusts. There are 2 main species of locusts in Kazakhstan (i) the ―Asian‖ locust
which is not considered a major problem and (ii) the Italian locust ( Callitamus italicus) which is the most


                                                 - 208 -
common and dangerous pest found in nearly all of Kazakhstan: in 1999 the country experienced a severe
outbreak of Italian locusts and as this species has a peak cycle of every 10 to 12 years, the next outbreak
is expected in 2010 or 201193. The scale of the problem increased dramatically after independence
(during1996–2001), when cessation of state subsidies for wheat production in the northern steppe lands
led to the abandonment of up to one third of the former wheat lands. The resulting mosaic of weedy
fields, pastures, and bare ground provided ideal breeding grounds for locusts. In 1999, more than seven
million hectares of land were invaded by Italian locusts and 220,000 hectares of crops were destroyed
causing a total damage equivalent to US$ 15 million. In 2008, again more than 200,000 hectares of crops
were destroyed in SKO.94 The Government was forced to conduct a massive chemical control campaign
throughout the country with assistance from Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
29.      Spring wheat fungal leaf diseases are also a problem for spring wheat production in
Kazakhstan. Despite the dry climate, cultivation of susceptible varieties results in epidemics of leaf rust
on average in 1 year out of two or three years, affecting over a million hectares with yield losses of up to
15–35%.95 Monitoring by the Kazakh Research Institute of Crop Protection (Koyshibayev, 2002)
suggests that from 1970 to 2002, there were 14 local leaf rust epidemics. Excess moisture and high
humidity during the month of July generates the conditions for the development of rust. Most of the
wheat cultivars planted in the region are susceptible to leaf rust and several resistant lines and new
varieties have been tested in trials only recently 96. Stripe rust, caused by Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici
is considered the most important disease of wheat in Central Asia and the Caucasus (CAC). Although
stripe rust has been present in the region for a long time, it has only become a serious constraint to wheat
production in the past 10 years. Rust attacks were observed in northern areas of Kazakhstan in 2007 and
in 2009.

Key risk exposures and their impact on spring wheat crop production.
30.      This section describes the spring wheat crop-yield risk assessment at the rayon level in 8
Oblasts including West Kazakhstan, Aktobe, Kostanay, Akmola, North Kazakhstan, Karaganda,
Pavlodar, and East Kazakhstan. The principal objectives of the rayon crop-yield risk assessment are (i)
to assist decision makers in assessing the spatial distribution of crop production values and (ii) to quantify
the risk of crop production and yield loss for spring wheat crops in each of the 8 selected Oblasts. The
section is based on the output generated by the Crop Risk Assessment Model (CRAM), which has been
specially designed in the context of spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan. The key underlying crop
production, yield, and valuation data and assumptions on which the CRAM model for the eight selected
Oblast in Kazakhstan is built include the following:
        Selected crops: Spring wheat in the eight selected Oblasts in Kazakhstan for which rayon-level
         crop area, production and yield data are available for the past 17years, 1994 to 2010.
        Cultivated area: In order to remove seasonal variations from the cultivated and harvested area in
         each rayon, the model takes the average sown area per rayon for each spring wheat crop year for

93
  IRIN Asia 2007. Kazakhstan: Locust invasion in west under control officials say. Almaty 10 July 2007.
http://www.irinnews.org/report?reoportid=73115
94
 Locust in Kazakhstan. Presentation made Alex Latchininsky & Ramesh Sivanpillai. University of Wyoming
95
 Reynolds M.P., J. Pietragalla, and H.-J. Braun, eds. 2008. International Symposium on Wheat Yield Potential:
Challenges to International Wheat Breeding. Mexico, D.F.: CIMMYT.
96
  Leaf rust of spring wheat in Northern Kazakhstan and Siberia: incidence, virulence, and breeding for
resistance* A. Morgounov A D, L. Rosseeva B and M. Koyshibayev CAustralian Journal of Agricultural Research
58(9) 847–853 http://dx.doi.org/10.1071/AR07086 Submitted: 8 March 2007 Accepted: 8 June 2007 Published: 28
September 2007


                                                - 209 -
        the past four seasons: 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010. The model then assumes that the cultivated
        area has remained constant over the past four years.
       Crop yields: the crop yields are based on the Agency of Statistics reported Rayon-level average
        yields (total production, in metric tons, divided by sown area - acres) for Commercial Farmers
        (CFs) and Production Enterprises (PEs). For the purposes of eliminating the effects of the
        increase in yield due to technology improvements (seed genetics, crop management practices, use
        of agrochemicals, etc), the 17-year historical yields have been de-trended and readjusted to an
        expected yield based on the most recent five-year average.
       Crop output prices: the spring wheat price is valued at the 3-year average market farm-gate price
        for September (month of harvest).
31.      Assessing yield losses and the value of losses for CRAM: The risk assessment model assumes
that the losses occur when the actual average yield at rayon level falls short of the expected yield for the
rayon, defined as the average yield for the most recent five crop years. In any year where the actual yield
is below the rayon average expected yield, the amount of yield loss is calculated as a percentage of the
expected yield to derive the pure loss cost (value of loss / gross value of production x 100 percent). The
average pure loss cost is then calculated as a simple average over the 17 years of yield data. In summary,
the CRAM uses a historical database of 17 years of yield data, adjusted by (i) the100 percent area losses
to represent more accurately the average yields sown area-basis and (ii) technological improvements in
crop yields in all the eight selected oblasts in Kazakhstan in order to establish the expected value of losses
and to estimate probable maximum losses for the national portfolio.

National Aggregate Crop Values
32.      The total values at risk (VAR) for the spring wheat portfolio amount to KZT 452 billion
(approximately US$ 3 billion). Spring wheat crops cultivated by agribusiness enterprises (PEs) present
higher exposure than the spring wheat crop cultivated by commercial farmers (CFs). The spring wheat
cultivated by PEs with a value at risk (VaR) of KZT 310 billion accounts for 69 percent of the total
portfolio‘s VAR, while the spring wheat crop cultivated by CFs with a value at risk (VaR) of G$ 141
billion accounts for only 31 percent of the portfolio‘s VAR. Several assumptions were made in order to
arrive to the VAR figures for spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan. This assumption can be
summarized as follows: The assumptions made to calculate the aggregate spring wheat crop values in
the 8 selected oblasts in Kazakhstan were: i) both spring wheat crops cultivated by agribusiness
enterprises and commercial farmers are included, ii) the full 3-year average sown area of spring wheat
crop in each rayon included with a total of 13.3 million hectares, iii) 100% coverage level on the spring
wheat expected yield for each type of farmer (agribusiness enterprises or commercial farmer) and rayon,
and iv) the crop production is valuated at the 2008 to 2010 farm gate prices for the month of harvest,
September.
33.      In the planning of any public-private crop insurance program for Kazakhstan, due
consideration must be given to the spatial and temporal distribution of crop values and careful
accumulation control exercised. The temporal distribution of VAR is determined by the length of the
crop cycles, the predominant cropping patterns, and the crop prices that will impact directly on the
exposed values. The temporal distribution of VAR for spring wheat in Northern Kazakhstan runs from
May to September. Spring wheat VARs in North Kazakhstan are far from being evenly geographically
distributed. Kostanay, NKO and Akmola Oblast, have a concentration of around 86 percent of the VARs
for spring wheat crop production in northern Kazakhstan (KZT 390 billion) in an area of 400,000 square
kilometers (approximately 630 kilometers times 630 kilometers). Although this area is huge, there is
evidence of high correlations among spring wheat yields between these three oblasts. On average, the
correlation coefficients among these Oblasts are above 0.84. The remaining five oblasts selected for the
analysis account for only 14 percent of the VARs for spring wheat crop production in Northern



                                               - 210 -
Kazakhstan (KZT 62 billion) in an area of approximately 1,330,000 square kilometers (approximately
2900 kilometers times 500 kilometers). Even taking into consideration the huge area comprised by these
oblasts, moderate to high levels of yield correlations are observed between them (except for those oblasts
situated in the antipodes of the area. Table A1.3 shows the distribution of spring wheat VARs per oblast
and type of farmer in Northern Kazakhstan. Table A1.4 shows the correlation matrix between annual
average spring wheat yields at Oblast level in North Kazakhstan. Map. A1.5 shows the distribution of
spring wheat VARs per rayon for the 8 selected oblasts under analysis.
 Table A1.3. Kazakhstan. Spring Wheat Crops. Total Values at risk (KZT Billions)
                        Agribusiness Enterprises        Commercial Farmers              Total
           Oblast
                          VAR            %               VAR          %            VAR           %
 Akmola                         87          28%              23         16%           110          24%
 Aktobe                          7           2%               5          3%            12           3%
 EKO                             6           2%               7          5%            14           3%
 Karaganda                       7           2%               7          5%            14           3%
 Kostanay                       98          31%              51         36%           148          33%
 NKO                            97          31%              36         25%           132          29%
 WKO                             4           1%               8          5%            11           2%
 Pavlodar                        5           1%               6          4%            10           2%
 Total                         310         69%              142        31%            452         100%
 Source: Authors from CRAM

 Table A1.4. Kazakhstan. Spring Wheat Crops. Yield Correlation matixs
              Akmola     Aktobe       EKO      Karaganda Kostanay          NKO     Pavlodar     WKO
Akmola          1.00
Aktobe          0.47      1.00
EKO             0.48      0.03        1.00
Karaganda       0.77      0.31        0.74        1.00
Kostanay        0.88      0.59        0.21        0.62         1.00
NKO             0.84      0.31        0.17        0.51         0.84        1.00
Pavlodar        0.53      0.03        0.84        0.61         0.32        0.51      1.00
WKO             0.18      0.65        -0.13       0.22         0.45        0.25      0.05       1.00
Source: Authors from Agency of Statistics




                                              - 211 -
 Map A1.5. North Kazakhstan: Spring Wheat Exposures in North Kazakhstan Region..




Source: Authors from Agency of Statistics.

Estimation of Spring Wheat Crop Losses
34.      The estimation of the crop losses for the spring wheat crop production in North Kazakhstan is
performed based on an “as if” analysis over the simulated output yields generated in CRAM . That
means that the CRAM, according to the assumptions made for the simulation, estimates the expected
losses for the portfolio and their associated pure loss ratios based on what would have occurred for each
of 5,000 yields generated by Monte Carlo Simulation under CRAM for each type of farmer and each
rayon (details of the methodology followed for CRAM are provided in Appendix 1.A). The process for
this estimation can be described in 3 steps. The first step consists in calculating - for each rayon and type
of farmer – the percentage of yield shortfall for each of the 5,000 yield simulations generated by Monte
Carlo Simulation under CRAM. Then, again for each rayon and farmer typology, if the yield generated by
Monte Carlo methodology is below the expected yield calculated based on the average of the five most
recent years‘ annual average yields determined for each type of farmer and rayon , then the percentage of
the deviation is recorded as a loss, otherwise it is recorded as zero loss. The second step consists, for each
rayon and farmer typology, in applying the percentage of the loss to the respective value at risk (VAR) to
obtain the amount of losses per each of the 5,000 yields generated through Monte Carlo Methodology in
CRAM. The third and last step consists in adding up, for each rayon and farmer typology, the calculated
loss figures per each of the 5,000 yields generated through Monte Carlo Methodology in CRAM.
35.      The main feature of this risk assessment is that the spring crop production in northern
Kazakhstan is a risky endeavor. This is evidenced by the annual average expected losses for the spring
wheat portfolio under analysis that, according to CRAM estimates, amount to KZT 66.5 billion per year
(approximately US$ 443 million), equivalent to an annual average loss cost ratio of 14.71 percent of the
total value of the expected production for major crops. The commercial farmers accounting for 31 percent
of the VAR for spring wheat crop production exhibit the highest loss cost of 17.52 percent. The VAR of


                                               - 212 -
the spring wheat cultivated by production enterprises– 69 percent of VAR for spring wheat production -
exhibit the lowest loss costs with average annual losses of 13.43 percent. Table A1.5 below shows the
average spring wheat annual expected loss at Oblast level for each type of farmer in Northern
Kazakhstan.
   Table A1.5. North Kazakhstan. Spring Wheat Crop.. Annual Average Value of Crop Losses (KZT Billion)
   Region         Crop Season          4-Year        Total       % of Values      Average      Losses as %
                                      Average      Values at                      Values of     of Total
                                      Planted      Risk (KZT                    losses (KZT      Values
                                        Area        billions)                     billions)
                                     (hectares)
               Akmola                       0.87         23.26           16%            4.41       18.98%
               Aktobe                       0.29          5.03            4%            1.37       27.24%
               EKO                          0.24          7.36            5%            1.41       19.13%
Commercial     Karaganda                    0.36          6.65            5%            1.31       19.68%
  Farms        Kostanay                     1.26         50.59           36%            8.43       16.66%
               NKO                          0.73         35.52           25%            4.78       13.47%
               WKO                          0.32          7.75            5%            2.08       26.77%
               Pavlodar                     0.24          5.84            4%            1.11       19.03%
Subtotal Commercial Farm                    4.31        141.99          31%            24.90       17.54%
             Akmola                         2.86         86.67          28%            12.12       13.99%
             Aktobe                         0.38          7.43           2%             1.67       22.52%
               EKO                          0.18          6.35            2%            1.20       18.90%

Agribusiness   Karaganda                    0.28          7.25            2%            1.08       14.94%
Enterprises    Kostanay                     2.57         97.53           31%           13.72       14.07%
               NKO                          2.32         96.64           31%           10.23       10.58%
               WKO                          0.18          3.54            1%            0.87       24.45%
               Pavlodar                     0.19          4.63            1%            0.73       15.80%
Subtotal Agribusiness Enterprises           8.96        310.03          69%            41.63       13.43%
               Akmola                       3.73        109.93          24%            16.54       15.04%
               Aktobe                       0.67         12.45           3%             3.04       24.43%
               EKO                          0.42         13.71            3%            2.61       19.02%
Whole          Karaganda                    0.64         13.89            3%            2.39       17.21%
Portfolio      Kostanay                     3.82        148.12           33%           22.15       14.96%
               NKO                          3.06        132.16           29%           15.01       11.36%
               WKO                          0.50         11.29            2%            2.94       26.05%
               Pavlodar                     0.42         10.47            2%            1.84       17.60%
Subtotal Whole Portfolio                  13.26         452.02         100%            66.52       14.72%
Source: Authors from CRAM
36.     The North Kazakhstan region is heterogeneous in terms of the risk faced by spring wheat crop
producers. The Oblasts situated towards the west of the region are more risky for spring wheat crop
production than those oblasts situated in Central North Kazakhstan. While the oblasts situated toward the
west of the region, such as WKO and Aktobe, show average loss cost ratios above 24%, the oblasts
situated in Central North areas of Kazakhstan ( such as NKO, Kostanay, and Akmola) show average
annual loss cost ratios between 10 percent to 15 percent of the Total VARs. The Oblasts located in the
north east of Kazakhstan (EKO, Pavlodar, and parts of Karaganda Oblast) are on the mezzanine level in
terms of risk for spring wheat crop production. Annual average loss costs at oblast level for spring wheat


                                             - 213 -
in the oblasts situated towards east of north Kazakhstan region range from 17 percent of the total VARs to
19 percent of the total VARs.
37.      Spring wheat crop production seems to be more risky when performed by commercial farmers
than when it is performed by agribusiness enterprises. This is evidenced by the fact that annual average
loss cost for spring wheat crop production for Commercial enterprises is higher than the annual average
loss cost for spring wheat crop production calculated for Agribusiness Enterprises. While Commercial
Farmers spring wheat crop production shows an average loss cost ratio of 17.54% of the total VARs,
Agribusiness enterprises show lower average loss cost ratios of 13.43% of the total VARs. The reasons
for the lower average loss cost ratio observed for agribusiness enterprises can be explained by the better
technical package applied by these farmers to their crops.
Probable Maximum Loss
38.      The analysis of 17-year (1994 -2010) spring wheat rayon level average yields shows that 1998
was the worst loss year in this series with total losses in spring wheat valued at KZT 179.4 billions,
which represented 51 percent of the 1998 annual spring wheat crop expected value of production97.
However, although 1998 was a severe loss year in Northern Kazakhstan, even worse crop losses could
occur in future. From an insurance view point, underwriters need to know with a high degree of
confidence the maximum losses that they might incur (termed the Probable Maximum Loss, PML98)
either 1 in 100 years, or if it is necessary to be even more conservative, 1 in 250 years. This information
is an invaluable aid to structuring an insurance and reinsurance program and to determining how much
capital must be reserved to cover the PML loss year. Figure A1.6 and Table A1.6 show the results of the
World Bank‘s PML loss cost analysis for return periods of 1 in 2 years up to a maximum of 1 in 250
years for the spring wheat crop production in the 8 selected Oblast in the northern region in Kazakhstan
simulated under CRAM, assuming a 100% Insured Yield Coverage level. The analysis shows that: (a)
The losses in 1998 with 51% loss cost at 100 percent coverage level equate approximately to a 1 in 60-
year return period; and (b) The 1 in a 100 year estimated PML loss cost is 54.6% at 100 percent
coverage level, equivalent to a financial loss of KZT 247 billons (US$ 1.64 billion).
     Figure A1.6. North Kazkahstan Region: Spring Wheat Crop Portfolio Modeled PML Loss Cost (at 100%
                                               coverage level)
                                               70.00%
                                                                                                        59.90%   61.34%
                                                                                               58.11%
                                               60.00%                            54.63%
                                                                     49.76%
                  Loss Cost (% of liability)




                                               50.00%

                                               40.00%       34.01%
                                               30.00%

                                               20.00%

                                               10.00%

                                                0.00%
                                                        0     10       50           100           150    200       250
                                                                            Recurrrence Period (ys.)



97
   Valued at the average price for spring wheat during September of the most recent 3-years and assuming that the
planted area for 2008 is the same that the 4-year average planted area for the period 2007 to 2010.
98
   The Probable maximum Loss is defined as ―An estimate of the maximum loss that is likely t o arise on the
occurrence of a single event considered to be within the realms of probability, remote coincidences and possible but
unlikely catastrophes being ignored‖.


                                                                      - 214 -
Table A1.6 North Kazakhstan: Spring Wheat Crop Portfolio modeled PML Loss Costs for different return
periods
                            Return Period (years)                                1 years 10 years 50 years 100 years                                   150 years     200 years       250 years
                    Expected Loss (KZT Billions)                                   66.31    153.74     224.93   246.92                                  262.68        270.75          277.25
                    Expected Loss (US$ Billions)                                   0.44      1.02       1.50     1.65                                    1.75          1.80            1.85
                    Loss Cost                                                    14.67%    34.01%      49.76%   54.63%                                  58.11%        59.90%          61.34%
                                                                                      Source: Authors form CRAM

1.           The results of the spring wheat crop risk assessment for 100% coverage level at rayon level
provide an idea about the potential exposure to losses of spring wheat cultivated in the 8 selected
oblasts in north Kazakhstan region and assist to delineate a reinsurance strategy for this crop. The
results of the Spring Wheat Portfolio PML analysis confirm that the 1 in 10 year spring wheat crop losses
in Kazakhstan could be as severe as 34 percent loss cost (KZT 153.7 billon) and as high as 54.6 percent
loss cost 1 in 100 years (KZT 246.9 billons). These are catastrophic losses to agriculture if the 1998 and
2010 droughts are likely to be repeated in the near future. The pattern of the PML figures for each of the
analyzed return periods suggests that the retention of the total liability arising out of retaining 100% of the
risk in the country is not possible; thus, the risk layering and risk financing issues must be considered
seriously in delineating the risk financing strategy.
2.         The PML analysis performed separately for commercial farmers (CF) and agribusiness
enterprises (PE), shows that the PML for commercial farmers is higher than the PML for agribusiness
enterprises.. For commercial farmers the 1 in 100 year estimated PML loss cost is 58.11 percent at 100
percent coverage level, equivalent to a financial loss of KZT 82.5 billion (US$ 550 million). Conversely,
the estimated 1 in 100 year PML loss cost for agribusiness enterprises is lower at 55.95 percent at 100
percent coverage level, equivalent to a financial loss of KZT 173.5 billion (US$ 1.16 billion). Figures
A1.7 a and b, show the results of the World Bank‘s PML loss cost analysis for return periods of 1 in 10
years up to a maximum of 1 in 250 years for the commercial farmers spring wheat crop portfolio and
Agribusiness enterprises spring wheat crop portfolio, assuming a 100% Insured Yield Coverage level.


    Figure A1.6a. North Kazkahstan: Commercial                                                         Figure A1.6b. North Kazkahstan: Agribusiness
  Farmer Spring Wheat Portfolio Modeled PML Loss                                                      Enterprises Spring Wheat Portfolio Modeled PML
            Cost (at 100% coverage level)                                                                    Loss Cost (at 100% coverage level)

                                 0.7                                              63.58%   64.79%                                   0.7
                                                                        61.07%                                                                                                       60.78%   62.30%
                                                               58.11%                                                                                                       58.68%
                                 0.6                                                                                                0.6                            55.95%
                                                      53.76%
    Loss Cost (% of liability)




                                                                                                       Loss Cost (% of liability)




                                                                                                                                                          50.45%
                                 0.5                                                                                                0.5
                                             38.38%
                                 0.4                                                                                                0.4         33.67%

                                 0.3                                                                                                0.3

                                 0.2                                                                                                0.2

                                 0.1                                                                                                0.1
                                       0                                                                                                  0
                                  0                                                                                                  0
                                       0       10       50      100      150       200      250                                           0       10        50      100      150      200      250

                                                Recurrrence Period (ys.)                                                                           Recurrrence Period (ys.)

                                           Source: Authors from CRAM                                                                          Source: Authors from CRAM
Conclusions
3.         The analysis of rayon level crop production and yields for spring wheat in the eight selected
oblasts in North Kazakhstan shows that spring wheat production is exposed mainly to droughts, but


                                                                                           - 215 -
also to late frost, hail, pest attacks and leaf diseases to the crop in almost all the region. This is
evidenced by the high average loss cost estimated through CRAM for a 17-years period, 1994 up to 2010,
estimated at 14.72 percent of the total gross value of spring wheat production in the region and a
calculated 1 in 100 year PML of 54.6 percent of the total gross value of production of spring wheat in the
selected oblast in north Kazakhstan.
4.          In an eventual crop insurance program for spring wheat production in north Kazakhstan
special consideration should be taken to crop management issues. As can be seen from this spring
wheat crop risk assessment, agribusiness enterprises are able to implement more improved crop
management measures than the commercial farmers and, therefore, are able to obtain better and more
stable spring wheat yields. In any eventual MPCI loss of yield crop insurance program for spring wheat
production in Kazakhstan, the insurers/ reinsurers will need take all the provisions in order to identify the
crop management practices implemented by the insured and make a risk selection based on the best
practice in terms of spring wheat crop production and risk reduction practices. For example, zero tillage is
a crop management practice that helps to save soil moisture for crops and, thus, to reduce and/or mitigate
drought risks. The risk reduction caused by the application of these sorts of crop management practices by
farmers should not be promoted by the insurance industry and to do so they can increase premium rates,
increase deductibles or, even, not write the risk.
5.         Any eventual crop insurance program for spring wheat production in north Kazakhstan, in
order to avoid adverse selection of risks within the insurance portfolio, should consider a distinction, in
terms of guaranteed yields and rates among the different rayons and type of farmers. The types of
farmers, agribusiness and commercial farms analyzed, as well as the different rayons in the selected
oblasts in North Kazakhstan show different exposures to risk. Spring wheat crops produced by
commercial farmers are more risky than this crop produced by agribusiness enterprises. Spring wheat
produced by commercial farmers reaches an annual average loss cost that on average for North
Kazakhstan is 17.54 percent, the same crop produced in the same area but by agribusiness enterprises
reaches a much lower annual average loss cost of 13.43 percent. While risky oblasts for spring wheat crop
production like WKO face an average loss cost of 26.5 percent, other oblasts that are less risky such as
NKO          have        an         average         loss       cost         of      11.36         percent.




                                              - 216 -
Appendix 1.A.
Crop Portfolio Risk Assessment Model – Design Features –
This section presents the basic design features of the Crop Risk Assessment Model (CRAM) for spring
wheat production in the selected oblasts in North Kazakhstan. The CRAM is constructed based on
analysis of variation of Oblast and Rayon-level spring wheat annual average yields for a 17year time-
series, from 1994 up to and including 2010.

The CRAM was developed using the sown area, harvested area, production and annual average yield
statistics for each of the rayons in NKO, Akmola, Kostanay, Karaganda, Pavlodar, EKO, Aktobe, and
WKO in the northern Kazakhstan spring wheat belt. The original spring wheat production data used for
this analysis were provided by the ARKS.

Selected Crops
The selected crop for the CRAM was spring wheat. According to information obtained from ARKS of
Kazakhstan, the average sown area of spring wheat was 13.26 million hectares for the period 2007 –
2010. Out of the 13.26 million hectares planted with spring wheat in North Kazakhstan region, 8.96
million hectares (68 percent) are planted by agribusiness enterprises and 4.31 million hectares (32
percent) are planted by commercial farmers.

Cultivated Area
The CRAM assumes that the annual spring wheat planted area has remained constant at the four year
average (period 2007-2010) over the 17 years sown area series. The reason for this assumption is to
remove seasonal variations for each rayon from the areas. The four year average total sown area for
spring wheat in the selected oblasts in North Kazakhstan amounts to 13.26 million hectares. The
breakdown of this information at oblast level is shown in Table A1.7.
  Table A1.7. Spring Wheat . Four-year Average Sown area at Oblast level (Hectares)
                                        Commercial             Agribusiness
                                          Farmers              Enterprises            Grand Total
             Oblast
                                        Sown Area               Sown Area              (hectares)
                                         (hectares)             (hectares)
 Akmola                                               0.87                 2.86                 3.73
 Aktobe                                               0.29                 0.38                 0.67
 EKO                                                  0.24                 0.18                 0.42
 Karaganda                                            0.36                 0.28                 0.64
 Kostanay                                             1.26                 2.57                 3.82
 NKO                                                  0.73                 2.32                 3.06
 WKO                                                  0.32                 0.18                 0.50
 Pavlodar                                             0.24                 0.19                 0.42
 Grand Total                                          4.31                 8.96                13.26
 Source: ARKS
In order to be eligible for CRAM, two criteria have been set: minimum sown planted area per Rayon and
a minimum of 17 years continuous annual average yield data. In order to ensure that there are sufficient
numbers of farmers growing the crop in a selected rayon, a minimum area of 10,000 hectares has been
provisionally set as a requirement for a crop in a certain rayon to be eligible for the model. The second
criterion is that at least 17 continuous years of yield data must be available for each rayon in order to
qualify for the CRAM.. Most of the rayons in the 8 selected oblasts in North Kazakhstan region, met the
eligibility criteria. As a result, the total acreage considered for CRAM was 13.26 million hectares. Out of




                                              - 217 -
the total area considered for CRAM, 8.96 million hectares (68 percent) were planted by agribusiness
enterprises (PEs) and 4.31 million hectares (32 percent) were planted by commercial farmers (CFs).

6.58. The main geographic concentration of spring wheat is observed in Kostanay, Akmola, and NKO
in north Kazakhstan region. The most important spring wheat rayons with between 320,000 Ha and
640,000 Ha of spring wheat are located in Kostanay, NKO and Akmola: conversely in EKO and WKO
the area of spring wheat is less than 2,500 Ha in many rayons. Map A1.6 shows the distribution of spring
wheat planted area (in hectares) in the 8 Oblasts of northern and central Kazakhstan at rayon level.

Map A1.6. North Kazakhstan: Planted area with spring wheat at Rayon level.




Source: Authors from Agency of Statistics.

Rayon Crop Yield Data
The CRAM uses rayon annual average yields for spring wheat crops for the period starting 1994 and up to
crop year 2010 as reported by ARKS. The original rayon annual average yields from 1994 to 2010 are
included in Appendix 3.

The ARKS reports average yields on a sown area basis at rayon level. This is an important advantage for
risk modeling purposes, since the yields calculated on a sown area basis capture, both, the variations due
to partial yield loss as well as the yield variations due to total crop area losses.

The ARKS reports average yields for two categories of farm typology, agribusiness enterprises and
commercial farmers. This is also an important advantage since it allowed the team to perform, for each
rayon, an assessment of the risk with a breakdown per each type of farm typology.
Spring wheat production shows significant differences in terms of yield performance between the crops
produced by commercial farmers and the crops produced by agribusiness enterprises. Spring wheat
average yields for the period 1994 to 2010 are similar between agribusiness enterprises and commercial
farmers. While the spring wheat average yields for crops produced by agribusiness enterprises during the



                                              - 218 -
period 1994 to 2010 is 8.70 centners per hectare, the average of the annual average yields for spring
wheat crops during the same period is 8.81 centners hectare. However, agribusiness enterprises‘ annual
average spring wheat crop yields are less volatile than commercial farmers spring wheat annual average
yields. Spring wheat crops produced by agribusiness enterprises showed an average coefficient of
variation (CoV), calculated per rayon along the 17-years annual average yield series of 29 percent.
Conversely, the CoV figures for spring wheat yields on crops produced by commercial farmers were
higher with an average CoV of 34 percent.

The commercial farmers and agribusiness enterprises spring wheat annual average yields imputed in
CRAM showed an increasing trend in their productivity during the period, 1994 to 2010. Table A1.8 and
the Figure A1.7.a and A1.7.b summarize the features of the crops included into the CRAM.
               Table A1.8. Features of zone annual average yields inputted ino CRAM. (1994 – 20101)

              Commercial Farmers                           Commercial           Agribusiness
                                                            Farmers             Enterprises                Whole Portfolio
           Average Yield (centners/he)                         8.81                 8.70                        8.78
         Standard Deviation (centners/he)                      2.96                 2.55                        2.54
                    COV%                                      34%                   29%                        29%
          Minimum Yield (Centners/he)                          4.12                 3.80                        3.99
          Maximum Yield (Centners/he)                         13.88                12.60                       12.69
                                                         Source: Authors from GRDB
       Figure A1.7a.: North Kazakhstan Region: Spring                     Figure A1.7.b.1: North Kazakhstan Region: Spring
       Wheat. Historic Average Yields for Agribusiness                     Wheat. Historic Average Yields for Commercial
          Enterprises (1994- 2010) (centner/hectare)                           Farmers (1994- 2010) (centner/hectare)

  20                                                                     20

  18                                                                     18

  16                                                                     16

  14                                                                     14

  12                                                                     12

  10                                                                     10

   8                                                                      8

   6                                                                      6

   4                                                                      4

   2                                                                      2

   0                                   y = 0.2517x + 6.4343               0                                y = 0.2145x + 6.8796
                   Akmola                    Aktobe                                    Akmola                    Aktobe

                   EKO                       Karaganda                                 EKO                       Karaganda

                   Kostanaskay               NKO                                       Kostanaskay               NKO

                   Pavlodar                  WKO                                       Pavlodar                  WKO

                   Aggregate Average                                                   Aggregate Average


                                                                        Source: Authors based on ARKS
 Source: Authors based on ARKS

Valuation Prices
For CRAM risk modeling purposes, spring wheat has been valued at the average market average price per
centner for the month of harvest for the crop years 2008, 2009, 2010. These crop prices are maintained as




                                                              - 219 -
a constant value for all the past 17 years. Table A1.9 shows the crop prices used for modeling under
CRAM.
     Table A1.9. Average Springwheat market prices for the month of Septemeber (Period 2008-2010).
                                         Spring Wheat Price for
 Year
                                       September (KZT/Centner)
 2008                                             2,802
 2009                                             2,560
 2010                                             3,998
 Average 2008-2010                                3,120
     Source: Arka Consulting

Yield Data Cleaning and trending to establish the Central Tendency
The annual average yield series at zone level used to feed CRAM must be adjusted in order to reflect the
current state of the art in terms of expected yields and yield variability for the selected crops for the risk
assessment. This sub-section describes the methodologies followed to clean the yield data, determine the
trend in yield data and, finally, to adjust the historical yields to the current expected yield at Region level.

Eliminate Yield Outliers
The first step was to detect and eliminate the statistical outliers from the annual average yield series for
each of the selected crop and regions by applying the Chauvenet99 criteria. Each of the 17 years annual
average yields records for each agribusiness enterprises and commercial farmers on each of the rayon in
the 8 selected oblast in North Kazakhstan. If, by applying the Chauvenet criteria a yield outlier was
detected, then the annual average crop yield was compared with the annual average crop yield
performance for the same crop and year in neighboring rayon. If, as result of this comparison, it was
detected that the crop yield performance in neighboring rayons diverged significantly in respect to the
annual average yield for the target rayon and year, then yield, production, and harvested area figures were
revisited to identify the cause of the divergence. If, any anomaly with yield, production, and harvested
area figures was detected and there was no reason for the anomaly, then the procedure was to replace the
outlier with the average annual average yield for contiguous rayon.

Adjusting Zonal Average Yield Data for Trends
The next step was to adjust the annual average yield series for maximum central tendency over the 17
years period. The crop yield central tendency is associated with crop management and technology
practices; crop yield deviations from the central tendency are associated with effects of nature. The main
objective of adjusting the historic annual average yield series was to isolate the effect on yields of the
improvement on crop management practices and the increase in technology application to the crops along
17-year period considered for the analysis. A simplified method was adopted for determining the central
tendency for each crop and each zone in the CRAM. The method aims to capture the non-linear yield
tendency in the 17-years of annual average yield series at zonal level by using this yield series fitted to a
lineal trend line and to an exponential trend line, and the five year moving average the 17 years annual
average yield series. The yield trending method followed to determine the central tendency is summarized
for spring wheat for agribusiness enterprises in Enbekshilderski Rayon in Akmola Oblast in Figure A1.8




99
  In statistical theory, the Chauvenet‘s Criterion is a means of assessing whether one piece of experimental data –
an outlier- from a set of observations, is likely to be spurious.


                                                  - 220 -
  Figure A1.8: Akmola- Enbekshilderski Rayon. Spring Wheat: Historic average yields and yield trends (1994 -
                                         2010) (centners/hectare)

                       18
                       16
                       14
                       12
                       10
                        8
                        6
                        4
                        2
                        0



                                          Historic Actual Yield   Lineal Trend

                                          Exponential Trend       5-year moving average

                                          TRENDED YIELD



                            Source: Authors from GRDB Annual Reports 1995 - 1998

Expected Yields and adjusted crop variability.
The last step was to estimate the expected yields and adjust the crop variability for spring wheat in each
rayon within the 8 selected oblasts under analysis in North Kazakhstan Region. The expected yields are
those used as inputs for risk modeling.

The design of the CRAM is based on the spring wheat annual average yields for the period 2006 – 2010 at
rayon level and their standard deviation; thus, these inputs must be representative of the current state of
the art of spring wheat crop production in each of the analyzed rayons. That is, all the long terms and
cyclical effects of crop management practice and of technology application on the historic annual average
yields must be isolated prior to estimating these parameters for risk modeling purposes.

In order to calculate the expected annual average yield for spring wheat for each rayon in the 8 oblasts
under analysis, the simple average of the most recent five years historic annual average yields was
calculated. This method to estimate annual average expected yields for a certain crop located in a certain
zones is common in the agricultural insurance practice in countries where the constraint of scarce annual
average crop yield data is a problem.

The second part of this analysis was to estimate the expected annual average yield volatility of the annual
average yield. The method used for this purpose was to measure the deviations between the historic actual
annual average yields for each year of the series in respect to the corresponding annual average yield of
the trend line. Then, these deviations were applied to the expected yield to obtain an adjusted annual
average yield series. The method used to estimate the central tendency for yields and the yield deviation
in respect to the central tendency is illustrated below in Table A1.10 and Figure A1.9.




                                                 - 221 -
      Table A1.10. Akmola- Enbekshilderski Rayon. Ilustration of the Spring Wheat de-trended/actulized yield
                                                  calculation
                                                                                                             Historic
                 Historic                                                              Average
                                   Lineal        Exponential         5-years                                 annual        Average
                 annual                                                                annual                                            Adjusted
                                   Yield            Yield            moving                                  average     Yield 2003-
 Crop Year       average                                                                yield                                              Yield
                                 Trendline        Trendline          Average                                  yields        2007
                  yields                                                              trendline                                         (center/he.)
                                (center/he.)     (center/he.)      (center/he.)                             deviations   (center/he.)
               (center/he.)                                                          (center/he.)
                                                                                                           from trend
    1994                  6              4.7                 4.4                                  4.6             32%            11.1           14.7
    1995                3.3              5.2                 4.7                                  4.9            -33%            11.1            7.5
    1996                  6              5.6                 4.9                                  5.3             14%            11.1           12.7
    1997                3.4              6.1                 5.2                                  5.7            -40%            11.1            6.7
    1998                1.6              6.5                 5.6                                  6.0            -73%            11.1            3.0
    1999               12.4              7.0                 5.9            4.1                   5.6            120%            11.1           24.5
    2000                7.8              7.4                 6.3            5.3                   6.3             23%            11.1           13.7
    2001                9.2              7.8                 6.7            6.2                   6.9             33%            11.1           14.8
    2002                9.3              8.3                 7.1            6.9                   7.4             26%            11.1           14.0
    2003                9.4              8.7                 7.5            8.1                   8.1             16%            11.1           12.9
    2004                5.4              9.2                 7.9            9.6                   8.9            -39%            11.1            6.7
    2005               11.3              9.6                 8.4            8.2                   8.8             29%            11.1           14.4
    2006               13.4             10.1                 9.0            8.9                   9.3             44%            11.1           16.0
    2007               16.2             10.5                 9.5            9.8                   9.9             63%            11.1           18.2
    2008                4.1             10.9             10.1              11.1                 10.7             -62%            11.1            4.3
    2009               15.8             11.4             10.7              10.1                 10.7              47%            11.1           16.4
    2010                6.2             11.8             11.4              12.2                 11.8             -47%            11.1            5.9
 5-year avg.          11.1      Source: Authors from ARKS


               Figure A1.9. Akmola- Enbekshilderski Rayon.. Adjusted Variability of Average Yields.
                         30.0

                         25.0

                         20.0

                         15.0

                         10.0

                          5.0

                          0.0



                                                    ACTUAL              Expected Yield = 5-year average yield



                                               Source: World Bank based on ARKS data

Estimation of losses for the National Paddy Portfolio
The estimation of losses for the spring wheat crop portfolio was performed through a risk modeling
exercise using the CRAM. Risk modeling is a fundamental step in agricultural insurance program design
and ratemaking procedures. The main objective of crop risk modeling is to estimate, based on the
available information, a yield probability density function that reflects the stochastic nature of yield
outcomes. The model has two components: (a) the normal risk component, and (b) the catastrophic risks
component.
The normal risk component of CRAM is based on probability density functions that reflect the stochastic
nature of yields outcomes for each crop season and zone. The model relies on two basic fundamentals: (a)


                                                              - 222 -
a crop yield probability density function inferred from the historic spring wheat annual average yields for
each rayon and type of farmer in the analyzed portfolio, and (b) a correlation matrix of rayon-level and
farmer-type level spring wheat annual average which reflects the covariant risk under the portfolio. The
probability density functions were inferred from the technology adjusted annual average yields from the
annual average yield series 1994 to 2010 that were fitted to a Weibull probability distribution.
The outputs of the yield probability density functions obtained for each rayon and type of farmer were
correlated in order to reflect the covariance on yields for risk modeling purposes. Spring wheat crop
production in Kazakhstan is exposed to drought which is a very systemic risk. Variations in spring wheat
crop yields are often caused by factors that typically affect a large area. The issue of a portfolio being
exposed to systemic risk, since it affects the degree on which the risks can be diversified, has severe
implications for the designing of crop insurance. In light of the systemic risk faced by spring wheat crop
production in Kazakhstan, the CRAM considered the correlations among each rayon and type of farmer in
order to simulate the potential losses for the portfolio. The Correlation matrix is presented in Appendix
1.4.
The CRAM simulates 5,000 iterations of the model in order to arrive to the final spring wheat crop yield
output. The final output yield for each zone and crop season is given by the multiplication of the crop
yield generated by Monte Carlo simulation with a Weibull. This formula is simulated, through the Monte
Carlo statistical methodology, by using @Risk software with 5,000 interactions.




                                             - 223 -
 Appendix1. B:
 Spring Wheat in North Kazakhstan. Historic Actual Spring Wheat Gross Value of Production Losses Estimation. Period 1994 -
 2010
                                           Table A1.11. North Kazakhstan. Spring Wheat. Estimation of Gross Value of Production Losses.

                                                            1994      1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
 Planted Area (million hectares) (1)                         13.3     13.3     13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3    13.3
 Wheat Prices (KZT/centner)(2)                              3120      3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120    3120
 Calculation of the expected Total Value of Production
 Average Trend Yields (Centners/he)                           5.6      6.7      7.4     7.8     8.2     8.5     8.7     9.0     9.1     9.3     9.5     9.6     9.7     9.9    10.0    10.1    10.2
 Expected Value of Production (KZT billion)                 239.3    286.6    314.3   333.9   349.1   361.6   372.1   381.2   389.3   396.5   403.0   408.9   414.4   419.4   424.1   428.5   432.7
 Calculation of the actual Total Value of Production
 Actual Average Yield (Centner/he)                            7.3      5.0      6.3     7.5     4.0    12.4     8.7    11.6    10.1     9.5     7.7     8.4    10.8    12.7     9.4    11.3     6.4

 Actual Value of Production (KZT billion)                   310.8    212.2    267.9   320.4   169.8   528.0   372.2   493.7   432.1   405.5   328.9   359.8   458.1   540.1   401.1   480.3   274.2
 Calculation of the losses (in terms of loss of benefits)
 Average Yield Shortfall (Centner/he)                         0.0      1.7      1.1     0.3     4.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     1.7     1.2     0.0     0.0     0.5     0.0     3.7
 Percentage of the Average Yield Shortfall                    0%      26%     15%       4%    51%       0%      0%      0%      0%      0%    18%     12%       0%      0%      5%      0%    37%
 Actual Value of Production (KZT billion)                     0.0     74.4     46.4    13.5   179.4     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    74.0    49.1     0.0     0.0    23.0     0.0   158.5
Source: Authors

Assumptions:
     (1) Total planted area is assumed to be equal to the average planted area for the most recent 4 years (Period 2007 -2010)
     (2) Wheat Prices are assumed to be equal to KZT 3120 per center, which is the average price for the month of September for the years 2008,
         2009, and 2010




                                                                    - 224 -
Appendix 1.C: North Kazakhstan region. Spring Wheat -CRAM Results for Commercial Farmers
                                                 Expected Yield    Value at Risk
      Crop / Oblast / Rayon     Sown Area (Ha)                                      Loss cost (%)
                                                  (Centner/he)        (KZT)
C F/ Akmola/ Akkol                      27,460              8.06      710,060,825          19.98%
C F/ Akmola/ Arshaly                    42,200            10.76     1,457,924,943          17.26%
C F/ Akmola/ Astrashanski              114,120              6.06    2,220,117,571          20.59%
C F/ Akmola/ Atbasarski                 49,720              9.28    1,481,036,816          19.82%
C F/ Akmola/ Bulandinski                20,020            10.84       696,672,789          17.37%
C F/ Akmola/ Celinogradski              32,740              7.47      785,330,857          20.67%
C F/ Akmola/ Enbekshilderski            25,260            10.74       870,555,481          18.87%
C F/ Akmola/ Esilski                    90,640              7.61    2,214,994,634          19.94%
C F/ Akmola/ Kokshetau                     675              5.64       12,222,929          19.30%
C F/ Akmola/ Korgalzhinski              11,760              4.71      177,796,402          19.62%
C F/ Akmola/ Sandiktauski               40,620            10.49     1,367,787,848          19.14%
C F/ Akmola/ Shortandinski              12,900              8.85      366,301,853          19.30%
C F/ Akmola/ Shuchenski                 15,380            11.52       568,800,837          16.18%
C F/ Akmola/ Stepnogor                   1,620              5.40       28,104,059          34.32%
C F/ Akmola/ Yegindikolski              96,520              6.00    1,858,263,101          20.63%
C F/ Akmola/ Zerendinski                35,760            11.81     1,355,972,962          16.49%
C F/ Akmola/ Zhaksi                     81,100            11.55     3,006,673,880          19.05%
C F/ Akmola/ Zharkainski               151,900              7.24    3,528,167,515          17.01%
C F/ Akmola/Erementauski                20,680              8.30      550,765,272          23.62%
Subtotal C F/ Akmola                   871,075              8.32   23,257,550,575          18.98%
C F/ Aktobe/ Aktobe                     10,160              6.11      199,410,046          27.27%
C F/ Aktobe/ Alga                       46,580              4.27      639,201,782          26.31%
C F/ Aktobe/ Bugetkol                   32,600              5.95      622,810,641          24.70%
C F/ Aktobe/ Hromtau city               32,600              6.11      639,213,639          26.43%
C F/ Aktobe/ Kargaly                    23,960              6.77      521,019,876          24.81%
C F/ Aktobe/ Kobda                      16,420              5.28      278,234,036          30.53%
C F/ Aktobe/Aitecebi                    54,180              4.47      777,962,913          30.60%
C F/ Aktobe/Baiganin                     2,000              4.28       27,506,632          31.50%
C F/ Aktobe/Martoc                      41,020              6.80      895,507,598          25.49%
C F/ Aktobe/Mugadjar                    18,960              4.17      253,647,088          30.77%
C F/ Aktobe/Oil                          1,420              2.95       13,444,447          36.67%
C F/ Aktobe/Temir                        9,740              5.09      159,121,893          32.69%
Subtotal C F/Aktobe                    289,640              5.41    5,027,080,590          27.24%
C F/EKO/ Ayagoz                          9,120              6.14      179,680,836          18.48%
C F/EKO/ Beskaragay                     26,500              5.63      478,848,484          25.63%
C F/EKO/ Boroduliha                     47,080              8.66    1,308,349,069          22.46%
C F/EKO/ Glubokoe                       17,920            14.54       836,587,802          16.95%
C F/EKO/ Katonkaragay                    7,700            13.87       342,717,477          16.47%
C F/EKO/ Kokpekti                       24,100            10.22       790,962,633          16.68%
C F/EKO/ Kurchum                         1,440            10.87        50,230,899          15.54%
C F/EKO/ Ridder city                       140            17.08         7,677,625          23.16%
C F/EKO/ Semey city                      9,720              5.58      174,234,100          28.48%
C F/EKO/ Shemonaiha                     17,040            14.37       786,143,734          17.78%
C F/EKO/ Tarbagatay                      1,820            10.55        61,608,124          13.34%
C F/EKO/ Ulan                           24,080              8.82      682,121,256          19.52%
C F/EKO/ Urzhar                         29,580              9.21      874,867,049          17.96%
C F/EKO/ Ust-Kamenogorsk city            1,000            11.97        38,425,479          17.38%
C F/EKO/ Zaysan                          1,920            15.45        95,235,429          12.44%
C F/EKO/ Zharma                          6,920              9.57      212,670,128          21.37%
C F/EKO/ Zyryan                          9,420            14.70       444,393,895          15.15%
Subtotal C F/EKO                       235,500              9.74    7,364,754,018          19.13%
C F/Karaganda/ Abai city
                                        10,800              4.96      172,124,626          21.91%
C F/Karaganda/ Aktogay                   3,400              6.14       67,006,404          15.84%
C F/Karaganda/ Buharzhirau              48,000              5.90      909,461,948          22.38%
C F/Karaganda/ Karkaraly                58,680              5.97    1,125,372,724          19.22%
C F/Karaganda/ Nura                     60,540              4.35      845,830,468          18.94%
C F/Karaganda/ Osakarov                103,680              6.64    2,211,169,651          20.46%
C F/Karaganda/ Shetski                  16,960              5.27      286,641,858          17.57%




                                             - 225 -
                                                    Expected Yield    Value at Risk
       Crop / Oblast / Rayon       Sown Area (Ha)                                      Loss cost (%)
                                                     (Centner/he)        (KZT)
C F/Karaganda/ Ulytau                      33,240              5.81      619,487,391          17.53%
C F/Karaganda/ Zhanaarka                   26,720              4.76      408,191,093          16.74%
Subtotal C F/Karaganda                    362,020              5.72    6,645,286,163          19.68%
C F/Kostanay/ Altynsarin                   38,440            14.96     1,845,586,570          17.53%
C F/Kostanay/ Amangedi                     36,400              7.74      904,397,028          16.69%
C F/Kostanay/ Arkalyk city                 90,960              6.17    1,800,175,154          20.74%
C F/Kostanay/ Auliykolski                  46,960              8.24    1,242,584,188          18.34%
C F/Kostanay/ Denisovski                   38,400            12.02     1,481,392,499          21.64%
C F/Kostanay/ Fedorovski                  136,640            16.21     7,112,122,283          15.87%
C F/Kostanay/ Kamisty                      53,020              8.82    1,500,279,593          24.28%
C F/Kostanay/ Karabalyk                    46,420            14.50     2,160,228,955          17.86%
C F/Kostanay/ Karasu                      167,900            11.39     6,137,687,754          15.64%
C F/Kostanay/ Uzunkolski                   55,320            16.88     2,996,840,433          16.15%
C F/Kostanay/ Zhangeldin                    8,620              6.00      166,053,342          19.49%
C F/Kostanay/ Zhetikara                    30,800              8.45      835,523,856          21.06%
C F/Kostanay/Kostanay                     139,440            16.71     7,480,172,177          16.08%
C F/Kostanay/Mendikara                     81,180            17.29     4,505,724,488          13.81%
C F/Kostanay/Nauirzym                     125,800              8.81    3,557,518,105          18.36%
C F/Kostanay/ Rudnyi city                  10,800              4.61      159,650,542          20.68%
C F/Kostanay/Sarykol                      106,580            14.93     5,106,690,335          13.15%
C F/Kostanay/Taranovski                    41,340            12.01     1,593,807,783          19.92%
Subtotal C F/Kostanay                   1,255,020            12.56    50,586,435,087          16.66%
C F/NKO/ Airtau                            44,820            15.48     2,227,422,830          15.21%
C F/NKO/ Akkayn                            36,460            16.58     1,940,704,814          14.47%
C F/NKO/ Akzhar                            92,900            13.69     4,081,926,985          11.29%
C F/NKO/ Esil                              29,900            15.44     1,482,035,529          13.45%
C F/NKO/ G.Musrepov                        86,880            14.82     4,133,478,134          14.96%
C F/NKO/ Kyzylzhar                         32,520            17.06     1,780,865,841          13.40%
C F/NKO/ M.Zhumabayev                     107,780            15.23     5,267,536,762          10.83%
C F/NKO/ Mamliut                           27,600            15.98     1,415,509,852          14.44%
C F/NKO/ Shalakin                          42,740            14.73     2,020,976,667          12.53%
C F/NKO/ Taiynsha                          66,020            14.72     3,118,549,855          14.00%
C F/NKO/ Timiryazev                        78,220            14.89     3,738,946,933          14.79%
C F/NKO/ Ualihanov                         26,780            12.24     1,051,934,539          15.23%
C F/NKO/ Zhambil                           62,160            16.33     3,257,858,445          14.39%
Subtotal C F/NKO                          734,780            15.06    35,517,747,186          13.47%
C F/WKO/ Akzhayk                            4,460              3.13       44,853,235          32.68%
C F/WKO/ Burlinski                         19,500              8.43      527,901,061          29.58%
C F/WKO/ Karatobinsky                       9,740              4.18      130,678,597          35.16%
C F/WKO/ Kaztalovski                       44,600              4.36      623,961,189          26.03%
C F/WKO/ Oral city                          3,720              7.37       87,979,490          24.96%
C F/WKO/ Shyngyrkau                        10,800              7.14      247,451,624          33.27%
C F/WKO/ Syrymski                          22,960              6.23      459,208,975          34.79%
C F/WKO/ Taskalynski                       26,660              7.08      606,164,666          24.84%
C F/WKO/ Terektinski                       38,180              8.58    1,052,015,774          29.25%
C F/WKO/ Zelenovski                        91,360              9.26    2,715,886,667          24.53%
C F/WKO/ Zhangalinski                       4,140              3.34       44,370,753          30.75%
C F/WKO/ Zhanibek                          47,040              8.02    1,210,893,867          24.28%
Subtotal C F/WKO                          323,160              7.47    7,751,365,899          26.77%
C F/Pavlodar/ Aksu city                       780              4.84       12,118,392          24.40%
C F/Pavlodar/ Aksuisky                      3,020              5.36       51,960,912          23.73%
C F/Pavlodar/ Aktogaisky                   17,260              5.78      320,238,588          19.92%
C F/Pavlodar/ Bayanaulski                     520              4.68        7,811,856          18.70%
C F/Pavlodar/ Ekibastuz city               48,740              9.08    1,420,615,032          22.05%
C F/Pavlodar/ Irtyshski                   108,560              7.04    2,453,282,304          16.96%
C F/Pavlodar/ Kashyrski                    38,280              8.74    1,073,960,712          18.55%
C F/Pavlodar/ Pavlodar area                   860              5.94       16,397,964          25.42%
C F/Pavlodar/ Shernaktinsky area           11,660              7.48      279,965,928          18.02%
C F/Pavlodar/ Uspenka area                  7,840              7.70      193,781,280          23.67%
C F/Pavlodar/ Zhelezninski                    780              4.33       10,851,462          17.87%
Subtotal C F/Pavlodar                     238,300              7.64    5,840,984,430          19.03%




                                                - 226 -
                                                  Expected Yield     Value at Risk
      Crop / Oblast / Rayon     Sown Area (Ha)                                        Loss cost (%)
                                                   (Centner/he)         (KZT)
Total Commercial Farm                 4,309,495            10.26    141,991,203,948          17.54%

Appendix 1.D: North Kazakhstan region. Spring Wheat - CRAM Results for Agribusiness Enterprises
                                  Sown Area       Expected Yield    Value at Risk
      Crop / Oblast / Rayon                                                           Loss cost (%)
                                    (hes)          (Centner/he)        (KZT)
P E/ Akmola/ Akkol                      88,480               8.85    2,512,784,751           16.82%
P E/ Akmola/ Arshaly                    94,720               9.54    2,900,532,724           11.43%
P E/ Akmola/ Astrashanski              182,440               7.56    4,425,241,766           14.87%
P E/ Akmola/ Atbasarski                299,360               9.22    8,857,519,376           14.94%
P E/ Akmola/ Bulandinski               167,620             10.40     5,597,308,250           13.77%
P E/ Akmola/ Celinogradski             184,740               6.99    4,143,495,277           13.61%
P E/ Akmola/ Enbekshilderski           114,180             12.14     4,448,062,120           15.91%
P E/ Akmola/ Esilski                   317,600               7.94    8,093,469,852           13.89%
P E/ Akmola/ Kokshetau                      520              3.64        6,069,357           15.85%
P E/ Akmola/ Korgalzhinski              53,980               5.80    1,005,248,410           13.60%
P E/ Akmola/ Sandiktauski              210,360             11.96     8,077,478,971           11.99%
P E/ Akmola/ Shortandinski             171,920               8.74    4,821,375,331           14.74%
P E/ Akmola/ Shuchenski                100,740             11.19     3,618,260,650           12.26%
P E/ Akmola/ Stepnogor                    1,620              5.41       28,127,928           32.27%
P E/ Akmola/ Yegindikolski             165,880               7.23    3,849,247,720           14.92%
P E/ Akmola/ Zerendinski               124,520             14.10     5,634,119,037           12.39%
P E/ Akmola/ Zhaksi                    284,700             11.80    10,788,137,838           13.52%
P E/ Akmola/ Zharkainski               232,920               8.62    6,446,671,872           14.91%
P E/ Akmola/Erementauski                59,400               7.43    1,416,301,794           18.29%
Subtotal PE/ Akmola                  2,855,700               9.45   86,669,453,024           13.99%
P E/ Aktobe/ Aktobe                       5,100              5.41       88,528,984           19.79%
P E/ Aktobe/ Alga                       28,960               4.15      385,875,066           25.56%
P E/ Aktobe/ Bugetkol                   29,260               7.04      661,135,666           23.08%
P E/ Aktobe/ Hromtau city               29,260               7.02      659,539,048           21.90%
P E/ Aktobe/ Kargaly                    61,280               7.90    1,554,350,473           20.15%
P E/ Aktobe/ Kobda                      28,920               3.57      331,688,542           28.23%
P E/ Aktobe/Aitecebi                   104,720               5.62    1,889,263,842           21.98%
P E/ Aktobe/Baiganin                    13,740               4.82      212,545,354           36.81%
P E/ Aktobe/Martoc                      57,900               7.43    1,380,451,244           20.31%
P E/ Aktobe/Mugadjar                    13,740               3.99      175,773,229           29.58%
P E/ Aktobe/Oil                           1,420              2.22       10,119,878           37.83%
P E/ Aktobe/Temir                         5,680              4.21       76,718,074           29.49%
Subtotal PE/Aktobe                     379,980               6.09    7,425,989,400           22.52%
P E/EKO/ Ayagoz                           7,533              4.51      109,178,717           20.66%
P E/EKO/ Beskaragay                     21,240               6.01      409,898,204           26.78%
P E/EKO/ Boroduliha                     27,780             11.09       989,027,196           19.54%
P E/EKO/ Glubokoe                       15,840             13.73       698,110,813           17.04%
P E/EKO/ Katonkaragay                     7,280            13.15       307,190,529           14.71%
P E/EKO/ Kokpekti                       24,500               7.72      607,101,213           17.77%
P E/EKO/ Kurchum                            250              4.61        3,700,901           23.56%
P E/EKO/ Ridder city                        160            15.15         7,782,956           22.56%
P E/EKO/ Semey city                       9,640              6.49      200,708,920           24.90%
P E/EKO/ Shemonaiha                     27,420             15.79     1,389,667,537           16.56%
P E/EKO/ Tarbagatay                         480              5.35        8,249,148           14.67%
P E/EKO/ Ulan                           11,540             11.85       438,878,181           27.96%
P E/EKO/ Urzhar                           5,760              7.35      135,899,749           16.66%
P E/EKO/ Ust-Kamenogorsk city               520            11.95        19,940,013           33.16%
P E/EKO/ Zaysan                             350            10.95        12,300,861           31.26%
P E/EKO/ Zharma                           4,460              7.85      112,456,426           18.93%
P E/EKO/ Zyryan                         19,800             14.13       898,026,448           15.72%
Subtotal C F/EKO                       184,553             10.72     6,348,117,812           18.90%
P E/Karaganda/ Abai city
                                         2,100             10.87         73,292,280          18.16%
P E/Karaganda/ Aktogay                      80              4.91          1,261,392          20.98%
P E/Karaganda/ Buharzhirau              37,680              8.31      1,005,531,899          13.83%
P E/Karaganda/ Karkaraly                 2,280              3.18         23,304,286          16.01%



                                              - 227 -
P E/Karaganda/ Nura                  130,220          8.49    3,546,878,414   15.18%
P E/Karaganda/ Osakarov               78,300          7.89    1,983,059,254   14.09%
P E/Karaganda/ Shetski                 2,480          5.75       45,753,740   19.13%
P E/Karaganda/ Ulytau                 26,060          6.17      515,820,003   16.51%
P E/Karaganda/ Zhanaarka               3,080          5.51       54,451,062   27.35%
Subtotal C F/Karaganda               282,280          8.00    7,249,352,331   14.94%
P E/Kostanay/ Altynsarin             136,860         13.33    5,856,824,100   14.53%
P E/Kostanay/ Amangedi                26,940          7.23      624,892,848   15.64%
P E/Kostanay/ Arkalyk city           145,180          9.16    4,267,031,367   14.65%
P E/Kostanay/ Auliykolski            129,200          9.91    4,111,717,130   15.97%
P E/Kostanay/ Denisovski             196,800         11.94    7,543,114,580   15.16%
P E/Kostanay/ Fedorovski             172,680         16.43    9,104,630,571   13.10%
P E/Kostanay/ Kamisty                241,180          9.18    7,103,774,036   15.49%
P E/Kostanay/ Karabalyk              171,660         14.72    8,108,623,798   13.37%
P E/Kostanay/ Karasu                 369,120         10.80   12,796,043,873   14.59%
P E/Kostanay/ Uzunkolski             181,120         13.99    8,131,717,338   11.73%
P E/Kostanay/ Zhangeldin                 900          4.79       13,843,961   25.19%
P E/Kostanay/ Zhetikara              159,800          8.40    4,306,454,111   15.76%
P E/Kostanay/Kostanay                120,640         12.72    4,927,730,587   14.28%
P E/Kostanay/Mendikara               146,980         14.04    6,626,119,660   12.73%
P E/Kostanay/Nauirzym                 94,500          6.79    2,058,842,713   16.24%
P E/Kostanay/ Rudnyi city              2,100         10.87       73,292,280   17.51%
P E/Kostanay/Sarykol                 188,740         14.61    8,852,721,341   12.79%
P E/Kostanay/Taranovski               83,500         11.27    3,022,050,464   14.69%
Subtotal PE/Kostanay               2,567,900         11.83   97,529,424,758   14.07%
P E/NKO/ Airtau                      208,540         13.15    8,803,324,609   10.37%
P E/NKO/ Akkayn                      119,380         14.44    5,534,283,571    9.42%
P E/NKO/ Akzhar                      179,620         11.00    6,341,688,989   10.37%
P E/NKO/ Esil                        179,220         13.76    7,917,090,376    9.65%
P E/NKO/ G.Musrepov                  430,400         13.16   18,187,418,497   11.42%
P E/NKO/ Kyzylzhar                    86,480         14.31    3,971,772,420    8.36%
P E/NKO/ M.Zhumabayev                178,020         13.66    7,803,702,607    9.12%
P E/NKO/ Mamliut                      88,560         13.69    3,891,730,880   10.18%
P E/NKO/ Shalakin                    147,800         12.91    6,125,248,394   12.27%
P E/NKO/ Taiynsha                    326,460         13.27   13,905,412,334   10.22%
P E/NKO/ Timiryazev                   94,260         12.36    3,739,024,090   11.56%
P E/NKO/ Ualihanov                   160,700         11.35    5,854,091,295   12.14%
P E/NKO/ Zhambil                     123,120         11.56    4,567,170,536   11.79%
Subtotal PE/NKO                    2,322,560         12.96   96,641,958,599   10.58%
P E/WKO/ Akzhayk                       5,180          2.98       49,503,494   30.54%
P E/WKO/ Burlinski                    13,740          7.20      317,366,112   24.39%
P E/WKO/ Karatobinsky                 25,300          6.78      550,770,542   29.48%
P E/WKO/ Kaztalovski                  17,720          4.13      235,138,068   24.63%
P E/WKO/ Oral city                     6,760          7.24      157,210,504   22.27%
P E/WKO/ Shyngyrkau                    7,800          4.93      123,511,043   27.40%
P E/WKO/ Syrymski                     25,300          6.27      509,163,744   25.28%
P E/WKO/ Taskalynski                   4,740          4.39       66,822,563   25.28%
P E/WKO/ Terektinski                  14,520          8.56      398,779,106   23.63%
P E/WKO/ Zelenovski                   38,320          6.94      854,136,285   21.57%
P E/WKO/ Zhangalinski                  5,180          2.91       48,346,159   28.13%
P E/WKO/ Zhanibek                     12,320          5.77      228,202,743   20.14%
Subtotal PE/WKO                      176,880          6.23    3,538,950,365   24.45%

P E/Pavlodar/ Aksu city
                                        520           3.88        6,476,496   25.83%
P E/Pavlodar/ Aksuisky                2,420           4.46       34,646,172   25.07%
P E/Pavlodar/ Aktogaisky              9,040           6.90      200,226,960   15.63%
P E/Pavlodar/ Bayanaulski             1,260           4.74       19,171,404   14.50%
P E/Pavlodar/ Ekibastuz city         30,900           9.40      932,376,600   18.70%
P E/Pavlodar/ Irtyshski              67,500           6.80    1,473,390,000   12.98%
P E/Pavlodar/ Kashyrski              20,860           6.76      452,653,656   15.02%
P E/Pavlodar/ Pavlodar area           4,940           6.24       98,950,176   17.77%
P E/Pavlodar/ Shernaktinsky area     15,400           9.76      482,475,840   18.66%




                                           - 228 -
P E/Pavlodar/ Uspenka area          30,640          9.18       902,893,392   15.75%
P E/Pavlodar/ Zhelezninski           1,860          4.34        25,912,404   14.55%
Subtotal PE/Pavlodar               185,340          7.78     4,629,173,100   15.80%
Total Agribusiness Enterprises   8,955,193         10.79   310,032,419,388   13.43%




                                         - 229 -
Appendix 1.E: North Kazakhstan region. Spring Wheat -CRAM Results for the whole portfolio
                              Sown Area       Expected Yield     Value at Risk
      Crop / Oblast / Rayon                                                       Loss cost (%)
                                (hes)          (Centner/he)         (KZT)
Akmola/ Akkol                      115,940               8.66     3,222,845,575          17.52%
Akmola/ Arshaly                    136,920               9.92     4,358,457,667          13.38%
Akmola/ Astrashanski               296,560               6.98     6,645,359,337          16.78%
Akmola/ Atbasarski                 349,080               9.23    10,338,556,192          15.64%
Akmola/ Bulandinski                187,640             10.45      6,293,981,039          14.16%
Akmola/ Celinogradski              217,480               7.06     4,928,826,134          14.74%
Akmola/ Enbekshilderski            139,440             11.88      5,318,617,601          16.39%
Akmola/ Esilski                    408,240               7.87    10,308,464,487          15.19%
Akmola/ Kokshetau                     1,195              4.77        18,292,287          18.15%
Akmola/ Korgalzhinski               65,740               5.61     1,183,044,812          14.51%
Akmola/ Sandiktauski               250,980             11.72      9,445,266,819          13.03%
Akmola/ Shortandinski              184,820               8.74     5,187,677,184          15.06%
Akmola/ Shuchenski                 116,120             11.23      4,187,061,487          12.79%
Akmola/ Stepnogor                     3,240              5.41        56,231,986          33.30%
Akmola/ Yegindikolski              262,400               6.78     5,707,510,821          16.78%
Akmola/ Zerendinski                160,280             13.59      6,990,092,000          13.18%
Akmola/ Zhaksi                     365,800             11.75     13,794,811,718          14.73%
Akmola/ Zharkainski                384,820               8.08     9,974,839,387          15.65%
Akmola/Erementauski                 80,080               7.65     1,967,067,067          19.78%
Subtotal PE/ Akmola              3,726,775               9.19   109,927,003,599          15.04%
Aktobe/ Aktobe                      15,260               5.88       287,939,030          24.97%
Aktobe/ Alga                        75,540               4.23     1,025,076,848          26.03%
Aktobe/ Bugetkol                    61,860               6.47     1,283,946,307          23.86%
Aktobe/ Hromtau city                61,860               6.54     1,298,752,687          24.13%
Aktobe/ Kargaly                     85,240               7.58     2,075,370,349          21.32%
Aktobe/ Kobda                       45,340               4.19       609,922,578          29.28%
Aktobe/Aitecebi                    158,900               5.23     2,667,226,755          24.49%
Aktobe/Baiganin                     15,740               4.75       240,051,986          36.20%
Aktobe/Martoc                       98,920               7.17     2,275,958,842          22.35%
Aktobe/Mugadjar                     32,700               4.09       429,420,317          30.29%
Aktobe/Oil                            2,840              2.58        23,564,325          37.17%
Aktobe/Temir                        15,420               4.76       235,839,966          31.65%
Subtotal PE/Aktobe                 669,620               5.79    12,453,069,990          24.43%
EKO/ Ayagoz                         16,653               5.40       288,859,554          19.30%
EKO/ Beskaragay                     47,740               5.80       888,746,688          26.16%
EKO/ Boroduliha                     74,860               9.56     2,297,376,265          21.21%
EKO/ Glubokoe                       33,760             14.16      1,534,698,615          16.99%
EKO/ Katonkaragay                   14,980             13.52        649,908,006          15.64%
EKO/ Kokpekti                       48,600               8.96     1,398,063,847          17.15%
EKO/ Kurchum                          1,690              9.94        53,931,800          16.09%
EKO/ Ridder city                        300            16.05         15,460,581          22.86%
EKO/ Semey city                     19,360               6.03       374,943,020          26.56%
EKO/ Shemonaiha                     44,460             15.25      2,175,811,271          17.00%
EKO/ Tarbagatay                       2,300              9.46        69,857,271          13.50%
EKO/ Ulan                           35,620               9.80     1,120,999,437          22.82%
EKO/ Urzhar                         35,340               8.91     1,010,766,798          17.78%
EKO/ Ust-Kamenogorsk city             1,520            11.96         58,365,491          22.77%
EKO/ Zaysan                           2,270            14.76        107,536,289          14.59%
EKO/ Zharma                         11,380               8.90       325,126,553          20.52%
EKO/ Zyryan                         29,220             14.31      1,342,420,343          15.53%
Subtotal C F/EKO                   420,053             10.17     13,712,871,830          19.02%
Karaganda/ Abai city                12,900               5.93       245,416,906          20.79%
Karaganda/ Aktogay                    3,480              6.11        68,267,796          15.94%
Karaganda/ Buharzhirau              85,680               6.96     1,914,993,848          17.89%
Karaganda/ Karkaraly                60,960               5.87     1,148,677,010          19.16%
Karaganda/ Nura                    190,760               7.17     4,392,708,882          15.90%
Karaganda/ Osakarov                181,980               7.18     4,194,228,905          17.45%
Karaganda/ Shetski                  19,440               5.33       332,395,597          17.78%
Karaganda/ Ulytau                   59,300               5.96     1,135,307,394          17.07%




                                          - 230 -
                               Sown Area       Expected Yield     Value at Risk
       Crop / Oblast / Rayon                                                       Loss cost (%)
                                 (hes)          (Centner/he)         (KZT)
Karaganda/ Zhanaarka                 29,800               4.84       462,642,155          17.99%
Subtotal C F/Karaganda              644,300               6.72    13,894,638,494          17.21%
Kostanay/ Altynsarin                175,300             13.69      7,702,410,670          15.25%
Kostanay/ Amangedi                   63,340               7.52     1,529,289,876          16.26%
Kostanay/ Arkalyk city              236,140               8.00     6,067,206,521          16.46%
Kostanay/ Auliykolski               176,160               9.47     5,354,301,319          16.52%
Kostanay/ Denisovski                235,200             11.95      9,024,507,079          16.22%
Kostanay/ Fedorovski                309,320             16.33     16,216,752,854          14.31%
Kostanay/ Kamisty                   294,200               9.11     8,604,053,629          17.02%
Kostanay/ Karabalyk                 218,080             14.67     10,268,852,754          14.32%
Kostanay/ Karasu                    537,020             10.98     18,933,731,627          14.93%
Kostanay/ Uzunkolski                236,440             14.66     11,128,557,771          12.92%
Kostanay/ Zhangeldin                   9,520              5.89       179,897,302          19.93%
Kostanay/ Zhetikara                 190,600               8.40     5,141,977,967          16.62%
Kostanay/Kostanay                   260,080             14.86     12,407,902,764          15.36%
Kostanay/Mendikara                  228,160             15.20     11,131,844,148          13.17%
Kostanay/Nauirzym                   220,300               7.94     5,616,360,817          17.58%
Kostanay/ Rudnyi city                12,900               5.63       232,942,823          19.68%
Kostanay/Sarykol                    295,320             14.73     13,959,411,675          12.92%
Kostanay/Taranovski                 124,840             11.52      4,615,858,247          16.50%
Subtotal PE/Kostanay              3,822,920             12.07    148,115,859,845          14.96%
NKO/ Airtau                         253,360             13.56     11,030,747,439          11.35%
NKO/ Akkayn                         155,840             14.94      7,474,988,385          10.73%
NKO/ Akzhar                         272,520             11.92     10,423,615,974          10.73%
NKO/ Esil                           209,120             14.00      9,399,125,906          10.25%
NKO/ G.Musrepov                     517,280             13.44     22,320,896,631          12.07%
NKO/ Kyzylzhar                      119,000             15.06      5,752,638,260           9.92%
NKO/ M.Zhumabayev                   285,800             14.25     13,071,239,369           9.81%
NKO/ Mamliut                        116,160             14.23      5,307,240,732          11.31%
NKO/ Shalakin                       190,540             13.32      8,146,225,061          12.34%
NKO/ Taiynsha                       392,480             13.51     17,023,962,189          10.92%
NKO/ Timiryazev                     172,480             13.51      7,477,971,023          13.17%
NKO/ Ualihanov                      187,480             11.48      6,906,025,834          12.61%
NKO/ Zhambil                        185,280             13.16      7,825,028,982          12.87%
Subtotal PE/NKO                   3,057,340             13.47    132,159,705,785          11.36%
WKO/ Akzhayk                           9,640              3.05        94,356,730          31.55%
WKO/ Burlinski                       33,240               7.92       845,267,173          27.63%
WKO/ Karatobinsky                    35,040               6.06       681,449,139          30.57%
WKO/ Kaztalovski                     62,320               4.29       859,099,257          25.65%
WKO/ Oral city                       10,480               7.29       245,189,994          23.23%
WKO/ Shyngyrkau                      18,600               6.21       370,962,667          31.32%
WKO/ Syrymski                        48,260               6.25       968,372,719          29.79%
WKO/ Taskalynski                     31,400               6.68       672,987,229          24.88%
WKO/ Terektinski                     52,700               8.58     1,450,794,880          27.70%
WKO/ Zelenovski                     129,680               8.58     3,570,022,953          23.82%
WKO/ Zhangalinski                      9,320              3.10        92,716,913          29.39%
WKO/ Zhanibek                        59,360               7.55     1,439,096,610          23.62%
Subtotal PE/WKO                     500,040               7.03    11,290,316,264          26.05%
Pavlodar/ Aksu city                    1,300              4.46        18,594,888          24.90%
Pavlodar/ Aksuisky                     5,440              4.96        86,607,084          24.26%
Pavlodar/ Aktogaisky                 26,300               6.16       520,465,548          18.27%
Pavlodar/ Bayanaulski                  1,780              4.72        26,983,260          15.72%
Pavlodar/ Ekibastuz city             79,640               9.20     2,352,991,632          20.72%
Pavlodar/ Irtyshski                 176,060               6.95     3,926,672,304          15.47%
Pavlodar/ Kashyrski                  59,140               8.04     1,526,614,368          17.51%
Pavlodar/ Pavlodar area                5,800              6.20       115,348,140          18.85%
Pavlodar/ Shernaktinsky area         27,060               8.78       762,441,768          18.43%
Pavlodar/ Uspenka area               38,480               8.88     1,096,674,672          17.15%
Pavlodar/ Zhelezninski                 2,640              4.34        36,763,866          15.53%
Subtotal PE/Pavlodar                423,640               7.70    10,470,157,530          17.60%
Total Portfolio                  13,264,688             10.62    452,023,623,336          14.72%




                                           - 231 -
Appendix 1.F: North Kazakhstan region. Spring Wheat -CRAM Yield Correlation Matrix




                                       - 232 -
   Annex 2: Mandatory Crop Insurance Program Statutory Features



This Annex contains the following legal documents relating to the Obligatory Crop Insurance Program
in Kazakhstan:

Annex 2.1. English translation of the Law on Comulsory Crop Insurance, Law No 5333 dated 10 March
2004

Annex 2.2. English translation of the Crop Insurance Policy Wording

Annex 2.3. 2009/10 Normative Costs of Production for spring wheat in each Oblast and Zone in
Kazakhstan




                                           - 233 -
                     Annex 2.1. Law      On Compulsory Crop Insurance
               The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan N 533 dated March 10, 2004
This Law regulates public relations arising in the sphere of compulsory crop insurance and establishes
legal, financial, and organizational frameworks for its implementation.
Article 1. Main definitions used in this Law
This Law shall operate the following main definitions:
1)     agent: a joint-stock company founded by the resolution of the Government of the Republic of
       Kazakhstan, a member of national holding in the sphere of agribusiness, the only shareholder of
       which is the Government;
2)     assessor (independent expert): a physical person or a legal entity that has a license to perform
       assessment;
3)     total loss of crops: consequences of the impact of adverse weather events on crops when the
       expenses for further growing of crops and harvesting exceed the expected income from the yield;
4)     partial loss of crops: consequences of the impact of adverse weather events on crops when the
       assessed or actual income from 1 hectare of crop production is less than the normative cost per 1
       hectare of crop production which is set at the moment of concluding compulsory insurance
       contract;
5)     adverse weather event: natural phenomenon (long-lasting - drought, frost-killing, lack of warmth,
       excess moisture in soil, excess moisture in air, flood, shallow, dry wind; and short-lasting - hail,
       excess rain, frost, strong wind, mudflow), which result in loss or damage of crop products;
6)     inspection act on the fact of adverse weather event (hereinafter referred to as the ―Inspection act‖):
       document which confirms the cause-and-effect relationship of the partial and total loss of crops
       and the impact of the adverse natural event(s), the requirements to which are stipulated by the
       Law on the form established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
7)     expected income from yield: revenue determined by the commission in compliance with the
       methodology for the determining of crop loss area which is approved by the authorized body in
       the sphere of crop production;
8)     crop production: a group of manufacturers in agricultural industry including agricultural
       producers, i.e. individuals and legal entities engaged in production of crop products;
9)     contract of compulsory crop insurance (hereinafter referred to as compulsory insurance contact): a
       contract concluded by the insurer and the insured on terms and conditions specified by this Law;
10)    mutual crop insurance company (hereinafter referred to as the ―mutual‘s‖): a legal entity founded
       in the organizational and legal form of consumer co-operative to provide mutual insurance of
       property interests of its members in compulsory crop insurance.
11)    crop product: product obtained by means of agricultural crops cultivation (cereals, oil-bearing
       crops, sugar beet, cotton);
12)    authorized state body in crop production: a state authority established by the Government of the
       Republic of Kazakhstan to carry out state regulation in the sphere of crop production development;
13)    insured event: an accident the occurrence of which can result in payment of insurance indemnity
       as stipulated by compulsory insurance contract;
14)    sum insured: a sum of money which an object of compulsory insurance has been insured for, and
       which represents the top amount of the insurer‘ s responsibility at the occurrence of insured event;
15)     insurance premium: a sum of money which the insured must pay to the insurer for undertaking the
       liability to pay an insurance indemnity to the insured (beneficiary) in the amount provided for by
       the compulsory insurance contract;
                                              - 234 -
16)    insurance indemnity: amount payable by the insurer to the insured (beneficiary) within amount of
       the sum insured upon the occurrence of an insured event;
17)    insurer: a legal entity granted a license to implement compulsory crop insurance in the order
       prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which shall pay the insurance
       indemnity to the insurer or any other person in favor of whom the contract was concluded
       (beneficiary) within the amount provided for by the contract (the sum insured);
18)    insured: a person engaged in producing crop products and who concluded a compulsory insurance
       contract with the insurer;
19)    franchise: release of the insurer from the obligation to indemnify the loss when the extent of loss
       does not meet the threshold;
20)    normative costs: expenditures related to separate technological processes, types of work and
       Clauses of expenses calculated per one hectare of crop production (in KZT);
Article 2. Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory crop insurance
1. The legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory crop insurance shall be based on the
Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and comprise the Civil code of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan On insurance activity, the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan On
mutual insurance, this Law and other normative and legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. If any international treaty as ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan stipulates rules other than provided
for by this Law, then the rules of the international treaty shall prevail.
3. This Law shall not apply to any activity related to the growing of crop products in non-agricultural
lands and its storage.
Article 3. The object of compulsory crop insurance
Subject matter of compulsory crop insurance is the property interests of the insured related to full or
partial reimbursement for the insured‘s losses at the occurrence of an insured event, the amount of which
shall be determined in accordance with this Law.
Article 4. The aims of compulsory crop insurance
The compulsory crop insurance is aimed to:
1) ensure protection of property interests of producers of crop products against the consequences of
adverse weather events by paying insurance indemnities in the cases, amounts and order set forth in this
Law;
2) to provide relevant conditions to credit producers of crop products on security of the crops insured;
3) to enhance the effectiveness of the state crop production support programs.
Article 4-1. Competence of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall:
1) develop state crop production programs;
2) approve standard form of compulsory crop insurance contracts and also contracts stipulating the terms
and conditions of partial reimbursement of insurance indemnities;
3) approve normative costs for production of crop products which are subject to compulsory insurance per
one hectare of sown areas;
4) approve the money use procedure which are allocated to support the compulsory crop insurance, and
also amount of payment to the agent for its service;
5) approve criteria and description of adverse weather events which are provided by the competent
environmental government agency and natural/manmade emergency authority;

                                              - 235 -
6) approve the procedure on establishing of a commission and arranging its work by a local executive
body of a rayon (city of oblast status) to define the extent of sown area affected by the adverse weather
event, and the form of inspection act;
7) approve the standard form of certificate from the hydro-meteorological service and/or competent
natural/manmade emergency authorities which is used to confirm the occurrence of an adverse weather
event;
Article 5. State control and supervision in compulsory crop insurance
1. The competent government crop production authority and its territorial bodies shall control the
producers‘ compliance with obligation related to the concluding of compulsory insurance contracts set
forth in this Law.
2. The competent government crop production authority shall:
        1) implement national strategy in crop production;
        2) develop and implement national and other programmes related to crop production;
        3) exercise state control for compliance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan related to
        crop production;4) improve legal and economic conditions for crop production development;
        5) study the current domestic and international situation in the crop production sector;
        6) exercise control for the work of the agent, the mutual‘s, their compliance with the Law of RK
        on compulsory crop insurance;
        7) consider cases of avoidance of concluding compulsory crop insurance contracts, and of non-
        compliance with the requirement stipulated by the Law of RK on Mutual insurance and with this
        Law by the Mutual‘s.
        8) request and receive from the Insured, the Insurer, and the Agent information and documents
        required to fulfill its supervising functions;
        9) set format and time of submission of information and documents by the Insured, the Insurer,
        and the Agent which are required to fulfill its supervising functions;
        10) develop and approve the methodology for determining the extent of crop loss area;
        11) design and approve the forms of reporting, checklists, risk assessment criteria, annual
        schedules of inspection as provided for by the Law of RK On State Control and Supervision in
        the Republic of Kazakhstan;
        12) submit to the competent authority which exercises regulation and supervision of the financial
        market and financial organizations, a list of the mutual‘s indicating name and location;
3. Local executive body of a rayon (city of oblast status) shall:
        1) arrange compulsory insurance for economic entities;
        2) request and receive from the Insured, the Insurer, and the Agent information and documents
        required to fulfill its supervising functions on the form established by the authorized state body in
        crop production;
        3) set optimal starting and completion date of sowing on particular area and with breakdown in
        the natural and climatic zones and types of crop products which are subject to compulsory crop
        insurance;
        3-1) submit a list of crop producers which are subject to insurance in current year to the
        authorized state body in crop production;
        4) establish commissions as provided for by Article 9 of this Law.



                                               - 236 -
        4. The state control for the activities of the insurance agencies shall be exercised by the
        competent authority which regulates and supervises the financial market and financial
        organizations in compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Article 5-1. Procedure of state control in compulsory crop insurance
For the purpose of state supervision, the territorial body of the competent government crop production
authority shall:
    1) request the agent to submit a list of insured persons/entities which have concluded compulsory
    crop insurance contracts, indicating all types of crop products insured on particular area
    2) excluded by the Law of RK dated 30.12.2009 N 234-IV;
    3) excluded by the Law of RK dated 17.07.2009 N 188-IV;
    4) draw up protocols on administrative violations and impose penalty in compliance with the
    administrative law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
State control in the sphere of compulsory crop insurance shall be exercised in the form of inspection and
other forms.
The inspection shall be carried out in compliance with the Law of RK On State Control and Supervision
in the Republic of Kazakhstan. Other forms of state control shall be carried out in compliance with this
Law.
Article 5-2. Peculiarities of the compulsory crop insurance implementation
    1. The Provisions provided for in this Law shall be applied to the mutuals‘ taking into consideration
       the specifics established by the legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan that govern the
       mutuals‘ activity.
    2. Insurance of property interests of the mutuals‘ members shall be implemented in compliance with
       the rules of mutual insurance.
    3. Producers of crop products being the members of the mutual‘s are not subject to compulsory
       insurance by the insurer.
    4. A legal entity registered as insurance company before obtaining a license for the right to carry out
       the compulsory crop insurance is obliged to have branches and/or insurance agents in the capital
       and the cities of republican, oblast and rayon status.
    5. It is not allowed to carry out any activity aimed to restrain or eliminate competition, to grant or
       gain unfounded advantages in concluding compulsory crop insurance contracts by some insurer
       over the others, and also to infringe rights and legal interests of the insured.
Article 6. Types of insured events in compulsory crop insurance
Insured events in compulsory crop insurance shall include loss or damage of crop products by adverse
weather events or combination thereof, indicated in the inspection act and entailing losses.
Article 7. Determining the amount of sum insured and types of normative costs
   1. The amount of sum insured shall be determined by the contract concluded in compliance with
      specifics of compulsory insurance specified by this Law, separately for each type of crop products
      according to normative costs per one hectare multiplied by the area on which the insured incurs
      costs on producing this type of crop.
   2. The sum insured shall be calculated based on the normative costs for one of the following types:
        1) science-based agricultural technology;
        2) simplified agricultural technology;
        3) by three types of costs: fuel and lubricants, seeds, wages.

                                              - 237 -
Article 8. Determining of the amount of insurance premium and payment procedure
     1. The amount of insurance premium for each type of crop products shall be established by
        compulsory insurance contract but it cannot be less than the amount of insurance rate fixed by
        this Law and multiplied by the relevant sum insured.
         To establish the maximum amounts of insurance rates calculated in percentage to the sum insured
         for a type of crop products set by compulsory insurance contract, subject to the state subsidy
         assistance of insurance indemnity:
                 1) grain crops (for groups of oblasts):
No      Name of Oblast                                                       Insurance rate, in %
                                                                             Min.       Max.
1       Аkmola, Аlmaty, East-Кazakhstan,       Zhambyl, Kostanay, North- 1.78           3.48
        Kazakhstan
2       Кaragandy, Kyzylorda, Pavlodar, South-Kazakhstan                     3.17       5.83
3       Аktobe, West-Каzakhstan                                              5.21       9.15
                 2) oil-bearing plants (across the country) – min. 2.01%, max. 3.44%;
                 3) sugar beet (across the country) – min. 5.76%, max. 8,39%;
                 4) cotton (across the country) – min.0.92%, max.1.33%.
     2. Insurance premiums shall be paid by the insured and charged to the cost of production of the
        insured type of crop products.
     3. Insurance premiums of compulsory crop insurance shall be paid one-time by the insured to the
        insurer, or upon agreement with the insurer by installment, in the order and terms stipulated in the
        compulsory insurance contract.
         Should the insured fail to duly pay insurance premium on terms of payment by instalment
         established in the compulsory insurance contract, the contract shall be deemed unconcluded.
         Should the insured fail to duly pay the next sum of the insurance premium on terms of payment
         by installment established in the compulsory insurance contract, the insured shall pay a penalty to
         the insurer in the order and amount provided for by the civil legislation of the Republic of
         Kazakhstan.
         Should the insured event occur before the payment of the next insurance premium or the payment
         of an insurance premium was delayed, the insurer has the right to reckon the sum of the unpaid
         sum insured to the insurance indemnity.
Article 9. Determining of amount of insurance indemnity and payment procedure
1. The insurance indemnity shall be paid in the amount of the loss incurred by the insured within the
limits of the sum insured, applying no franchise.
No franchise (contingent or absolute) shall be set by the insurer in the compulsory crop insurance; when
the franchise is set it shall be deemed invalid.
2. The extent of the loss shall be determined as a positive difference between the extent of the normative
costs per one hectare of crop production, which is set at the moment of concluding a compulsory
insurance contract, and the revenue from one hectare of the area affected by the adverse natural event,
multiplied by the exact area on which the given crop was produced and which was affected by an adverse
weather event.
The extent of areas affected by the adverse weather event shall be ascertained by a commission which
must be established by a local executive body of rayon (city of oblast status) within five working days
from the date of receipt of the insured‘s application.
                                               - 238 -
The commission shall comprise the representatives of the local executive body of rayon (city of region
status), the authorized state body in the areas of crop production, an agent, the insurer or the mutual‘s, and
the insured.
The commission shall inspect the sown area indicated by the insured by means of the methodology of
determining the crop loss area, which is approved by the competent state a agency in the area of crop
production and on the basis of findings shall define the extent of crop production loss, i.e. total or partial.
Based on the results of inspection, on the day of inspecting the commission shall draw up an inspection
act in three copies, for each case of adverse weather event separately or in combination thereof and for
each type of crop products. The inspection act shall be signed by each member of the commission and
submitted to the representatives of the agent, the insurer or the mutual‘s, and the insured. Should one of
the commission members disagree with the taken decision and refuse to sign the act, he/she must provide
his/her justification and attach it to the inspection act. The inspection act is deemed accepted when it is
signed by three members of the commission.
In case of partial loss of crops, the volume of products harvested from the areas affected by the adverse
weather event is subject to assessment during the harvesting. In case of total loss of crops, the extent of
loss shall be determined as the amount of normative costs per one hectare of crop production, which is set
at the moment of conducting a compulsory crop insurance contract, multiplied by the area on which the
given crop was produced and which was affected by the adverse weather event.
3. The income can be actual, i.e. calculated after the sale of total volume of the given crop affected by
adverse weather event.
4. The income can be assessed, i.e. calculated after gathering the crops and prior to the sale of the total
volume of the given crop affected by the adverse weather event.
The assessed income shall be determined by the insurer upon the application of the insured or its
representative. If case of disagreement the assessed income shall be determined by the assessor
(independent expert). In case of disagreement with the results of assessment, the parties have the rights to
prove their opinion.
In case of total loss of crops, the assessed income shall not be assessed income shall be determined by the
insurer.
In case of total loss of crop the insurer shall not determine the assessed income.
5. In case of partial loss of crops, the indemnity shall be paid not earlier than one month but not later than
three months after harvesting. The income shall be calculated
1) in compliance with Clause 3 of this Article, if the yield was realized;
2) in compliance with Clause 4 of this Article, if the yield was not realized;
3) in compliance with Clause 3 of this Article, if the yield was partially realized, while the income related
to the non-realized part of the yield shall be calculated in compliance with Clause 4 of this Article.
4). In case of total loss of crops, the insurer must pay insurance indemnity to the insured in full within ten
working days from the moment the insurer has received documents specified in Clause 2 of Article 10
hereof.

Article 10. Terms of payment of the insurance indemnity
1. The insured shall put in a claim for insurance indemnity to the insurer in writing and enclose relevant
documents.
2. The documents to be enclosed are as follows:
- a copy of a compulsory insurance contract;
- a copy of map (scheme) of fields location;
- a certificate from hydro-meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency
authorities which ascertains the occurrence of the adverse weather event;

                                               - 239 -
- a copy of the insured‘s application, which is to be marked as registered, to a local executive body of a
rayon (city of oblast status) on the establishing a commission to determine the extent of area affected by
the adverse weather event;
- documents (listed in the a compulsory insurance contract) which confirm the receipt of actual income or
in case of their absence, the assessor‘s (independent expert) report on assessment of income in case of
partial loss of crops.
The insurer may not request from the insured any other additional documents.
3. On receipt of documents the insurer shall draw up a certificate noting the full list of received
documents and date of receipt. The certificate shall be made in 2 copies, one for the Claimant and the
second one for the insurer.
Article 11. Grounds to release the insurer from paying the insurance indemnity
    1. The insurer shall have the right to refuse to pay the insurance indemnity to the insured in full or in
part if the insured event resulted from:

    - deliberate actions of the insured which result in or contribute to the occurrence of the insured event,
except     for the       actions     taken    in the event          of    self-defense     and     emergency;
   - actions of the insured which are deemed deliberate crimes or administrative offences according to the
legal act of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which cause the insured event .
    2. The insure may refuse to pay indemnity to the insured on the following grounds:
    - the insured provided intentionally false information about the object of insurance, insurance risk,
insured                    event                   and                     its                   consequence;
    - the insurer deliberately did not take measures to minimize the loss resulted from the insured event;
    - the insured create obstacles to the insurer in investigating the circumstances of the insured event
occurrence,           and          in        determining          the          extent          of        loss;
    - non-notification of the insurer of the occurrence of an insured event, if it will not be proved that the
insurer duly knew about or that the lack knowledge could not prevent him from the duty to indemnify;
     - submission of an application to a local executive body of a rayon (city of oblast status) on
establishing a commission to determine the extent of areas affected by the adverse weather event,
violating the terms set forth in Paragraph 6 of Clause 2 of Article 15 of this Law;
       - other events prescribed by the civil law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
    3. The decision to refuse to pay the insurance indemnity shall be taken by the insurer and
communicated to the insured in writing together with justified reasons of such refuse, within seven
calendar days from the date of submission of all documents specified in Clause 2 of Article 10 hereof.
    4. The insured may appeal in court the insurer‘s refuse to pay the insurance indemnity.
Article 12. Government support of compulsory crop insurance
    1. Government support of compulsory crop insurance shall be performed by allotting budgetary funds
as defined by the law on republican budget for appropriate fiscal year to the authorized state body in crop
production with the purpose to reimburse fifty percent of insurance indemnity to insurers and the mutuals‘
on the insured events resulted from the adverse weather events and to pay for the agent‘s services.
   The funds allotted to pay for the agent‘s services may be transferred to the agent‘s account in a
second-level bank as provided for by the contract between the competent crop production authority and
the agent.
  2. Аn agent shall open an account in the National bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter – the
National Bank of Kazakhstan) to manage funds which are transferred by the competent crop production
authority on the basis of the contract made between the competent crop production authority and the
agent.
   Temporary free funds from the current account in the National bank of Kazakhstan may be placed on
deposits in the National Bank of Kazakhstan and fund in state securities.
   Income side of current account in the National Bank of Kazakhstan shall be formed out of budgetary
funds transferred by the competent crop production authority on the basis of the contract and income from

                                               - 240 -
the placement of temporary free funds in deposits in the National Bank of Kazakhstan and in state
securities.
    Expense side of the current account in the National Bank of Kazakhstan shall include amounts placed
to deposit, and expenses to compensate for a part of insurance indemnity to the insurers and the mutuals‘.
    Account balance in the National Bank of Kazakhstan available at the end of fiscal year is not subject
to return to the competent crop production authority and to budget.



Article 13. Procedure to claim reimbursement for a part of insurance indemnity made
     1. Demand for reimbursement of a part of the paid insurance indemnity shall be placed by the
insurer/mutual‘s on the Agent in the form of written application with enclosed documents according to
Clause                        2                    of                      this                      Article.
    2. The documents which shall be enclosed to the application for reimbursement of a part of the paid
insurance                    indemnity                 are                   the                  following:
        -    a     notarized    copy     of   the     contract    of     compulsory      crop     insurance;
   - documents confirming that the indemnity has been made (an original of a payment order, a copy of a
withdrawal slip, a copy of a collection order stamped by the insurer/mutual‘s, or an original thereof);
    - a copy of court decision if the insurance indemnity was paid by the effective decision of the court;
    - a copy of document on assessed income certified by the insurer/mutual‘s in case of partial loss of
crop.
    In case it will be revealed that the documents listed in part 1 of Clause 2 of this Article do not meet
the requirements set by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, those documents shall be returned to the
insurer or the mutual‘s to eliminate comments. However, the part of the paid insurance indemnity shall be
reimbursed to the insurer or the mutual‘s within 7 working days beginning from the date when the
document            have         been        submitted         for          the        second          time.
    2-1. The agent shall reimburse a part of the paid insurance indemnity on the basis of contract on
procedure and terms of partial reimbursement of insurance indemnity which is concluded with the insurer
according                               to                            this                             Law.
    3. The agent has the right to refuse the insurer/mutual‘s to reimburse a part of the paid insurance
indemnity in case the latter communicated and/or submitted deliberately false information to the agent.
     4. The insurer/mutual‘s shall bear responsibility for accuracy of data related to the amount of
insurance                                                                                        indemnity.

Article 14. Rights and obligations of the insurer
                  1.              The             insurer             has             the             rights:
     - at the occurrence of the insured event, together with the insured and the assessor (independent
expert) to carry out work to determine actual and/or assessed income from the crop products affected by
the                              adverse                           weather                           events;
     - to request from the competent bodies relevant documents confirming the occurrence of the insured
event;
     - to use the reports of an assessor (independent expert) (if any) to determine the amount of insurance
indemnity           as       a        result      of       the        insured       event       occurrence;
     - to receive reimbursement for a part of insurance indemnity from the agent from of budgetary funds;
     - to make up proposals on the improvement of the compulsory crop insurance and submit them to the
agent;
     - to determine an assessed income independently or by involving an appraiser (independent expert);
     - to refuse to conclude the compulsory insurance contract in case the insured failed to conclude it on
due        time       as     set     forth     in      Clause      3      of     Article    17       hereof.
                      2.                The                insurer                is                obliged:
    - if the insured fails to submit documents specified in Clause 2 of Article 10 hereof, to notify the
insured of the missing documents immediately but not later that within 3 working days;

                                              - 241 -
   - at the occurrence of an insured event which entailed losses, to pay insurance indemnity against the
kinds of crop products produced by the insured, in the amount, order and terms as prescribed by this Law
and                         compulsory                           insurance                        contract;
   - to conclude a contract with the agent on procedures, terms and conditions of partial reimbursement of
the insurance indemnity, in order to obtain a part of the insurance indemnity on the insured events
occurred due to adverse weather event, provided that the compulsory insurance contract with the insured
has been concluded in time as set forth in Clause 3 of Article 17 hereof;
    - to record and keep statistical data on performing compulsory crop insurance and submit it to the
agent                             upon                              his                          request;
    - to agree the worked out regulations related to compulsory crop insurance with the competent
authorities regulating and supervising the financial market and financial organizations;
    - to provide the agent with information on compulsory insurance contracts which have entered into
force not later than on the fifth day of a month next to the month of contract concluding;
      - to familiarize the insured with the regulations on compulsory crop insurance;
              -           to            ensure            confidentiality        of           insurance;
      - to pay for the services of the engaged by him assessor (independent expert)
    - to inform the agent about all court decisions and /or determinations related to the paid insurance
indemnity and its amount within three days from the date they were given;
    - at the occurrence of adverse weather event to send his representative to a commission of a local
executive body of a rayon (city of oblast status) created on the basis of the insured‘s application, to
inspect and determine the extent of areas affected by the adverse weather event.
   2-1. The insurer has no right to place demands related to the observance of agricultural technologies
in                                           crop                                            production.
   3. The insurer has other rights and obligations provided for by the legal acts of the Republic of
Kazakhstan            and             the          compulsory             insurance             contract.

Article 15. Rights and obligations of the insured
                 1.              The               insured              has              the             rights:
    - to be paid the insurance indemnity within the time limit stipulated by the compulsory insurance
contract;
    - to demand for explanations from the insurer on conditions of the compulsory insurance, his rights
and          obligations           under          the          compulsory          insurance          contract;
        -    to     familiarize     with     the     results    of    assessment      of     losses   incurred;
    - to dispute the insurer‘s decision to refuse to pay insurance indemnity or reduce its amount in
compliance with the procedure provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the
compulsory                                            insurance                                        contract;
    - to apply to the court in case of disagreement with the results of assessment of actual or assessed
income on each kind of crop products produced in the sown areas affected by the adverse weather event;
    - to choose one of the normative costs indicated in Article 7 of this Law to calculate the sum insured
for                   the                   compulsory                     insurance                   contract.
                     2.                 The                  insured                 is                obliged:
    - to make a compulsory insurance contract with the insurer within the time limit prescribed in Clause
3                        of                       Article                       17                      hereof;
    - to pay insurance premiums in the amount, order and term stipulated by the compulsory insurance
contract;
    - immediately but not later than five working days after he has known about the occurrence of adverse
weather event, which can entail the occurrence of an insured event, to notify of it the insurer by any
possible way (verbally, in writing). Verbal notification shall be later (within seventy two hours)
confirmed in writing. The failure to do it due to serious reasons shall be proved by relevant document.
    - to provide relevant conditions for the representatives of the agent, insurer and assessor (independent
expert) to observe the area on which the adverse weather event occurred, and not to prevent them to
observe      the      state     of     the     crops      before     the     completion       of    harvesting;

                                               - 242 -
    - to submit an application to the local authority of the rayon (city of oblast status) on the establishment
of a commission to determine the extent of area affected by the adverse weather event:
     - in case of short-lasting event: within three working days from the date it has occurred;
    - in case of short-lasting event: within ten working days after revealing its impact on crops, if the
certificate from the hydro meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency
authorities       confirming       the      insured       event       occurrence        is      available     ;
    - to assure property interests on each separate field of sowing;
    - to take measures to reduce losses resulted from the event insured;
    - submit to the insurer documents listed in Clause 2 of Article 10 of this Law, which are required for
obtaining                        a                          insurance                          indemnity.
    3. The insured has other rights and obligations provided for by the legal acts of the Republic of
Kazakhstan             and           the            compulsory               insurance           contract.

Article 16. Rights and obligations of the agents


                 1.             The              agent              has               the               rights:
      - to work out proposals related to the improvement of the compulsory crop insurance;
      - to sum up the experience of the implementation of the compulsory crop insurance;
    - to request for relevant information including confidential insurance data from the stakeholders of
the compulsory crop insurance with the purpose to exercise his/her rights and obligations.
                     2.                the                 agent                 is                   obliged:
     - to inform the insurer and the insured of the approved normative costs for the kind of crop
production;
    - at the occurrence of the adverse weather event, being a member of the commission established upon
the insured‘s application to the local executive body of the rayon (city of oblast status), to carry out work
on determining the extent of the crop area affected by the adverse weather events;
     - reimburse a part of the insurance indemnity to the insurer within seven working days from the
moment the documents have been received according to Clause 2 of Article 13 of this Law, in the amount
stipulated                                                                                             hereby;
     - conclude contract with the insured/the mutual‘s on the procedure and conditions of partial
reimbursement of insurance indemnities on the basis of a standard form of reimbursement of part of
indemnities on insured events occurred as a result of the adverse weather event.
    3. The agent has other obligations assigned to him by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
    4. The agent shall appropriate funds to the insurers/ the mutuals‘ within the time limit stipulated by
Clause 2 of this Article, only after the insurers/ the mutual‘s has executed their liabilities related to
insurance indemnity provided that the insurer/the mutual‘s complies with the terms and conditions of the
contract concluded with the agent.
    5. The performance of the agent shall be supervised by the authorized state bodies in compliance with
the           legislation         of           the           Republic            of          Kazakhstan.

Article 16-1. Rights and obligations of the hydro meteorological service and/or the competent
natural/manmade emergency authorities
     1. The hydro meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency authorities
have the right when preparing a certificate confirming the occurrence of an adverse weather event, in case
of         dispute         to        carry        out        on-site         observation.
    2. The hydro meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency authorities are
obliged to issue a certificate which confirms or does not confirm the occurrence of an adverse weather
event:
    1) to the insured - free of charge, in two copies, within three calendar days in case of short-lasting
event,     and     within      five    calendar     days     in     case     of    long-lasting     event;

                                               - 243 -
     2) to other stakeholders - upon official written requests in compliance with the established procedure.

Article 17. Contract of compulsory insurance


    1. The conclusion of a contract of compulsory insurance is obligatory for crop producers and insurers.
    2. A contract of compulsory insurance shall be made in writing and in two copies for the period not
less than five months but not longer than twelve months.
    Compulsory insurance contract shall be concluded on the basis of the Insured‘s application. The
requirements to its content are established by the normative and legal acts of the authorized body which
regulates      and    supervises      the     financial   market     and      financial     organizations.
    3. A contract of compulsory insurance for each kind of crop production shall be concluded not later
than within fifteen calendar days after finishing sowing as defined by the local executive body of rayon
(city of Oblast status) in compliance with Clause 3 of Article 5 hereof.
               4. A contract of compulsory insurance shall terminate in the cases of:
             1)         expiry          of         the       period          of         its        effect;
    2) making payment of insurance indemnity on all insured events occurred during the validity period of
that contract.
    5. A contract of compulsory insurance may be cancelled preterm in cases stipulated by the Civil code
of                    the                  Republic                   of                    Kazakhstan.
    6. A beneficiary under the contract of compulsory crop insurance shall be the insured or any other
person       in       favor      of      whom       the       contract       has       been       made.

Article 18. Settlement of disputes
    Any disputes arising from the relationships of the contract of compulsory crop insurance shall be
considered in order fixed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Article 19. Responsibility for violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
оn compulsory crop insurance
   Persons who are guilty of violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on compulsory
crop insurance shall bear responsibility in compliance with the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Article 20. Procedure for entry into force of this Law
     This Law shall enter into force from April 1, 2004.
President
of the Republic of Kazakhstan




                                              - 244 -
Annex 2.2. Kazakhstan Compulsory Crop Insurance Policy (English)
                                                                                              Approved by
                                                                         the Enactment of the Government
                                                                             of the Republic of Kazakhstan
                                                                               of 31 October 2006 N 1036


Standard Form of Compulsory Crop Insurance Contract

_______ series ________            N __         "__" _______ 200_г.

_____________________________________, hereinafter referred to as the ―Insurer‖, acting on the basis
of         ___________________________________________________,                  in    the     person      of
____________________________________________________________, on the one part, and
________________________, hereinafter referred to as the ―Insured‖, acting on the basis of
___________ on the other part, collectively referred to as the ―Parties‖, and individually referred to as the
―Party‖, on the basis if the Civil Code and the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 10 March 2004 ‗On
Compulsory Crop Insurance‖ (hereinafter referred to as the ―Law‖) have concluded this Contract of
Compulsory insurance (hereinafter referred to as the ―Contract‖) on the following basis:

1. Terminology and Definitions

   1. The following terminology and definitions are used herein:

    1) inspection act on the fact of adverse weather event (hereinafter referred to as the ―Inspection
       act‖): document which confirms the cause-and-effect relationship of the partial and total loss of
       crops and the impact of the adverse natural event(s), the requirements to which are stipulated by
       the Law on the form established by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
    2) beneficiary is the Insured or other person in behalf of whom the Contract was concluded;
    3) adverse weather event: natural phenomenon (long-lasting - drought, frost-killing, lack of warmth,
       excess moisture in soil, excess moisture in air, flood, shallow, dry wind; and short-lasting - hail,
       excess rain, frost, strong wind, mudflow), which result in loss or damage of crop products;
    4) object of compulsory crop insurance is the Insured‘s property interests related to partial or full
       indemnity of the Insured‘s losses upon the occurrence of an insured event, the amount of which is
       determined in accordance with the Law.
    5) assessor (independent expert): a physical person or a legal entity that has a license to perform
       assessment;
    6) total loss of crops: consequences of the impact of adverse weather events on crops when the
       expenses for further growing of crops and harvesting exceed the expected income from the yield;

    7) partial loss of crops: consequences of the impact of adverse weather events on crops when the
        assessed or actual income from 1 hectare of crop production is less than the normative cost per 1
        hectare of crop production which is set at the moment of concluding compulsory insurance
        contract;
    8) expected income from yield: revenue determined by the commission in compliance with the
        methodology for the determining of crop loss area which is approved by the authorized body in
        the sphere of crop production;
    9) crop product: product obtained by means of agricultural crops cultivation (cereals, oil-bearing
        crops, sugar beet, cotton);
    10) crop production: a group of manufacturers in agricultural industry including agricultural
        producers, i.e. individuals and legal entities engaged in production of crop products;
    11) insurer: a legal entity granted a license to implement compulsory crop insurance in the order
        prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which shall pay the insurance

                                              - 245 -
        indemnity to the insurer or any other person in favor of whom the contract was concluded
        (beneficiary) within the amount provided for by the contract (the sum insured);
    12) insured: a person engaged in producing crop products and who concluded a compulsory insurance
        contract with the insurer;
    13) sum insured: a sum of money which an object of compulsory insurance has been insured for, and
        which represents the top amount of the insurer‘ s responsibility at the occurrence of insured event;
    14) insurance premium: a sum of money which the insured must pay to the insurer for undertaking
        the liability to pay an insurance indemnity to the insured (beneficiary) in the amount provided for
        by the compulsory insurance contract;
    15) insured event: an accident the occurrence of which can result in payment of insurance indemnity
        as stipulated by compulsory insurance contract;
    Note. Clause 1 as revised by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated 08.10.2010 No 1042

        2. Subject of Contract

     2. Under this Contract the Insurer shall provide insurance coverage for the Insured‘s property
interests related to partial or full indemnity of the Insured‘s losses upon the occurrence of an insured
event, the amount of which shall be determined in compliance with the law.
    3. The effect of this Contract shall not be applied to any activities related to growth of crop products
on           non-agricultural           land          and          crop            products          storage.
    4. The Insurer shall not provide insurance coverage for the Insured‘s losses which occurred due to
causes others than adverse weather events.

3. Amount of Sum Insured and Insurance Premium

     5. The amount of sum insured shall be established for each type of crop products according to
normative costs per one hectare multiplied by the area on which the insured incurs costs on producing this
type                                                 of                                             crop.
    6. The sum insured under this Contract shall be determined in the amount of __________ (________)
KZT in accordance with the Annex hereto, соnstituting an                          integral part hereof.
    7. The indemnity of loss and/or damage in excess of the sum insured shall be born by the Insured.
    8. The insurance premium under this Contract shall be __________ (________) KZT and shall be
determined within the time limit and in order set forth in Annex hereto which is considered to be its
integral                                                                                             part.
    9. Should the insured fail to duly pay insurance premium on terms one-time payment as provided for
in the compulsory insurance contract, the contract shall be deemed unconcluded.
   10. Should the insured fail to duly pay the next sum of the insurance premium on terms of payment by
installment as provided for in this compulsory insurance contract, the insured shall pay a penalty to the
insurer in the order and amount provided for by the civil legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
   11. Should the insured event occur before the payment of the next insurance premium or the payment
of an insurance premium was delayed, the insurer has the right to reckon the sum of the unpaid sum
insured                  to                    the                  insurance                  indemnity.


4. Insured event

   12. Insured events in compulsory crop insurance shall include loss or damage of crop products by
adverse weather events or combination thereof, indicated in the inspection act and entailing losses.
Note. Clause 12 with amendments made by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated 08.10.2010 No
1042.
   13. The proof of insured event occurrence and loss shall rest with the Insured.

5. Rights and Obligations of the Parties

                                              - 246 -
                  14.               The                insurer              has              the             rights:
     1) at the occurrence of the insured event, together with the insured and the assessor (independent
expert) to carry out work to determine actual and/or assessed income from the crop products affected by
the                               adverse                               weather                             events;
    2) to request from the competent bodies relevant documents confirming the occurrence of the insured
event;
    3) to use the reports of an assessor (independent expert) (if any) to determine the amount of insurance
indemnity          as          a       result         of        the        insured         event        occurrence;
    4) to determine an assessed income independently or by involving an appraiser (independent expert);
                     15.                  The                    Insurer                 is                obliged:
        1) to familiarize the Insured with the rules of compulsory crop insurance;
                2)             to            ensure              confidentiality            of           insurance;
    3) at the occurrence of adverse weather event to send his representative to a commission of a local
executive body of a rayon (city of oblast status) created on the basis of the insured‘s application, to
inspect and determine the extent of areas affected by the adverse weather event;
    4) at the occurrence of an insured event which entailed losses, to pay insurance indemnity against the
kinds of crop products produced by the insured, in the amount, order and terms as prescribed by the Law
and                     this                   compulsory                      insurance                   contract;
    5) to pay for the services of the engaged by him assessor (independent expert);
      16. The insurer has other rights and obligations provided for by the legal acts of the Republic of
Kazakhstan                and              this             compulsory               insurance             contract;
    17. The insurer has no right to place demands related to the observance of agricultural technologies in
crop                                                                                                    production.
                  18.               The                insured               has              the             right:
       1) to be paid the insurance indemnity within the time limit specified herein;
    2) to demand for explanations from the insurer on compulsory insurance conditions and his rights and
obligations                               set                              forth                             herein;
         3)    to     familiarize     with      the     results    of     assessment      of     losses   incurred;
     4) to dispute the insurer‘s decision to refuse to pay insurance indemnity or reduce its amount in
compliance with the procedure provided for by the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan and this Contract;
    5) to apply to the court in case of disagreement with the results of assessment of actual or assessed
income on each kind of crop products produced in the sown areas affected by the adverse weather event;
     6) to chose one of normative costs to calculate sum insured when concluding this Contract.
                             19.                        The                        is                      obliged:
        1) to assure property interests on each separate field of sowing;
       2) to pay insurance premiums in an amount, manner and terms specified herein;
        3) to take measures to reduce losses resulted from the event insured;
    4) immediately but not later than within five working days after he has known about the occurrence of
adverse weather event, which can entail the occurrence of an insured event, to notify of it the insurer by
any possible way (verbally, in writing). Verbal notification shall be later (within seventy two hours)
confirmed in writing. The failure to do it due to serious reasons shall be proved by documentary evidence;
     5) to submit an application to the local authority of the rayon (city of oblast status) on the
establishment of a commission to determine the extent of area affected by the adverse weather event:
          - in case of short-lasting event: within three working days from the date its occurrence;
          - in case of long-lasting event: within ten working days after revealing its impact on crops, if the
certificate from the hydro meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency
authorities confirming the insured event occurrence is available;
      6) to notify the insurer of all Contracts concluded or being under conclusion in respect of the object
of                                                                                                       insurance;
     7) to provide relevant conditions for the representatives of the insurer and assessor (independent
expert) to observe the area on which the adverse weather event occurred, and not to prevent them from
observation        of       the      crops       state      until     the       completion        of    harvesting;
     8) submit to the insurer all documents which are required for obtaining the insurance indemnity.
     20. The insured has other rights and obligations provided for by the legal acts of the Republic of

                                                 - 247 -
Kazakhstan                              and                             this                            Contract.
.

6. Determining the amount of insurance indemnity and payment procedure

    21. The amount of insurance indemnity amount shall be determined in compliance with the Law and
this                                                                                                Contract:
    1) in case of total loss of crops, the extent of loss shall be determined as the amount of normative
costs per one hectare of crop production, which is set at the moment of conducting a compulsory crop
insurance contract, multiplied by the area on which the given crop was produced and which was affected
by                      the                    adverse                       weather                    event;
          in       case      of      full       damage         EL        =       (NC        *     S       ha);
            S         –        area         affected         by         adverse          weather        event;
                      AL                   –                  extent                   of                loss;
                          NC                      –                      normative                      costs;
     2) in case of partial crop damage, the volume of production which was collected from the area
effected by the adverse weather event, is subject to obligatory appraisal during the harvesting. The
revenue           shall         be         calculated          in          the         following         way:
    after realization of the whole volume of the kind of crop production on the basis of actual income;
    prior to realization of the whole volume of the kind of crop production on the basis of estimated
income;
    in case the yield was realized partially and there is a part of yield unrealized, then in compliance with
Paragraph          2        &        3,         Sub-clause          2,        Clause         21       thereof;
    in case of partial loss EL = (NC –income from 1 ha of the area which was affected by the adverse
weather event) * S ha (area which was affected by adverse weather event).
    Note. Clause 21 amended by the Enactment of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated
28.06.2008 N 642.

 22. .The insured shall put in a claim for insurance indemnity to the insurer in writing and enclose the
following documents:
             -         a        copy          of         a       compulsory            insurance          contract;
            -        a        copy         of        map        (scheme)          of         fields       location;
     - a certificate from hydro-meteorological service and/or the competent natural/manmade emergency
authorities      which       ascertains     the     occurrence     of     the     adverse        weather     event;
     - a copy of the insured‘s application, which is to be marked as registered, to a local executive body of
a rayon (city of oblast status) on the establishing a commission to determine the extent of area affected by
the                               adverse                             weather                                event;
     in case of partial loss the insurer shall also submit documents which confirm obtaining of income, and
namely:
            -        copies         of        crop         production        purchase-and-sale           contracts;
               -         copies          of          invoices         and           shipping           documents;
     - income estimation certificate issued by the insurer or an independent expert.
Note. Clause 22 with amendments by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated 30.10.2009 No 1728
(for        procedure         for       entry       into      force,       please        see        Clause       2)
     23. On receipt of documents the insurer shall draw up a certificate noting the full list of received
documents and date of receipt. The certificate shall be made in 2 copies, one for the Claimant and the
second one for the insurer.
Note. Clause 23 with amendments by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated 08.10.2010 No
1042.
      23-1. Should the insured fail to submit the documents as provided for by Clause 22 of this Contract,
the insurer shall immediately, but not later that within three working days notify the insurer in writing of
the missing documents.
Note. Section 6 is amended by adding Clause 12 by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated
08.10.2010                                                  No                                               1042.
                                                 - 248 -
     24. In case of total crop loss, no estimated income shall be determined by the insurer.
    25. In case of total crop loss, the insurance indemnity shall be paid within 10 working days from the
date of signing the inspection act, on the basis of the inspection act and the documents stipulated in
Clause                                                22                                            hereof.
    26. The insurance indemnity shall be paid if event insured occurred during the period validity if this
Contract.
     26-1. The beneficiary under the Contract is __________________. The details of the beneficiary
shall be indicated by the insureв in application for insurance indemnity.
Note. The standard contract form is amended by adding Clause 26-1 according to Enactment of the
Government of RK dated 30.10.2009 No 1728 (for procedure for entry into force, please see Clause 2)
    27. If under this Contract the sum insured is paid in full, the Contract shall be deemed terminated.
    28. The decision to refuse payment of the insurance indemnity shall be taken by the insurer and
communicated to the insured in writing together with justified reasons of such refuse, within seven
calendar days from the date of submission of all documents specified in Clause 22 of this Contract.

7. Release of the Insurer from paying insurance indemnity

    29. The insurer shall have the right to refuse to pay the insurance indemnity to the insured in full or in
part             if            the             insured            event              resulted           from:
    1) deliberate actions of the insured which result in or contribute to the occurrence of the insured event,
except     for the       actions     taken    in the event          of     self-defense     and    emergency;
    2) actions of the insured which are deemed deliberate crimes or administrative offences according to
the legal act of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which cause the insured event.
    30. The insurer may refuse to pay indemnity to the insured on the following grounds:
     1) the insured provided intentionally false information about the object of insurance, insurance risk,
insured                    event                    and                     its                  consequence;
    2) the insurer deliberately did not take measures to minimize the loss resulted from the insured event;
     3) the insured create obstacles to the insurer in investigating the circumstances of the insured event
occurrence,           and          in        determining           the          extent         of        loss;
     4) non-notification of the insurer of the occurrence of an insured event, if it will not be proved that
the insurer duly knew about or that the lack knowledge could not prevent him from the duty to indemnify;
     5) submission of an application to a local executive body of a rayon (city of oblast status) on
establishing a commission to determine the extent of areas affected by the adverse weather event,
violating the terms set forth in Sub-clause 5 of Clause 19 of this Contract.
       6) other cases prescribed by the civil law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.


8. Force-Majeure

      31. The Parties shall be released from any liability for partial or non-fulfillment of the obligations
under this Contract if such improper fulfillment was caused by force-majeure including natural disaster,
hostilities, nuclear exposure, strikes, civil disorders and also prohibitive measures envisaged by the legal
acts of the government agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, if these circumstances directly influenced
the fulfillment by the Parties of their obligations under this Contract.
      32. In case of force majeure which makes impossible the fulfillment for the Party of its obligations
under the Contract, then this Party shall inform the other Party of it and provide relevant evidences not
later      than    within     5     working       days     from     the     date    of    its   occurrence.
     33. The circumstances indicated in Clause 31 shall be certified by the competent government
authorities                                          and                                      organizations.
     34. In case of undue notification, the Party shall be ruled ineligible to plead to any of the above
circumstances as a reason for exemption from responsibility for non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of
liabilities                           under                           this                        Contract.
     35. If force-majeure lasts for more than one month, then any of the Parties is entitled to solely
terminate this Contract
                                               - 249 -
9. Validity Period and Place of the Insurance Contract

     36. This Contract is deemed valid and binding for all Parties from the moment of payment of the
insurance premium by the Insured and it is in force till ___________ 20__.
Note. Clause 36 with amendments by the Enactment of the Government of RK dated 30.10.2009 No 1728
(for       procedure        for      entry      into        force,       please      see      Clause     2).
     37. In case the insurance premium is paid by installment as provided for by this Contract, it shall be
deemed valid from the date of payment of the first installment unless otherwise specified by the legal acts.
      38. The insurance coverage period shall be equal to the Contract validity period.
     39. Under the Contract, the place of the Contract is the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

10. Grounds for Terminating Insurance Contract

        40.     This    Contract     shall     be      terminated    in     the     following    cases:
             1)        expiry         of          the          Contract         validity        period;
    2) insurance indemnity has been paid out for all insured events which occurred during the Contracts
validity                                                                                        period.
    41. The Contract may be terminated pre-term in cases stipulated by the Civil Law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan.

11. Liabilities of the Parties

    42. In case of non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of obligations undertaken by the Parties under
this Contract, the Parties shall bear responsibility as required by the effective law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan.

12. Procedure for Introduction of Amendments in the Contract

    43. Introduction of amendments in the conditions hereto shall be valid on written consent of the
Parties of this Contract.

13. Dispute Settlement

    44. Any disputes that may arise with compulsory crop insurance shall be regulated in accordance with
the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

14. Additional Conditions

    45. Annexes, changes and amendments to this Contract hereto shall be deemed integral part hereof
and      valid     only     if     made      in      writing      and     signed      by    both      Parties.
    46. Neither of the Parties shall be entitled to transfer its rights and obligations under the Contract to
third      party       without       the      written       approval       of       the     other      Party.
    47. Other interrelations not stipulated by the conditions of this Contract shall be regulated by the civil
law                of                the               Republic                 of               Kazakhstan.
    48. The Contract is made in duplicate having equal legal force for each of the Parties.

15. Bank Details of the Parties

   "Insurer"                         "Insured"

   Name: _____________           Name:                                                     ____________
         Address:      ____________________                        Address:         ___________________
  TRN (Taxpayer     Registration   No)      ____                    TRN          ______________________
                                               - 250 -
     IIC    (Individual     Identity   Code)    ____        IIC   ______________________
BIC (Bank Identifier Code) _________   BIC ______________________




                                       - 251 -
                                                            Annex to Standard form of
                                                            Compulsory Crop Insurance Contract

Sum Insured and Insurance Premium Calculation
For Compulsory Crop Insurance Contract

of ______________ 2010 concluded with _______________________ (farmer‘s name)

_________ rayon _______________ oblast

_____________________________ natural climatic zone

Field No Total   Free area Actual sown      Kind of    Normative         Sum     Insurance Insurance
    as    area   (ha, non-   area (ha)       crop     costs per 1 ha   insured    rate (%) premium
indicated (ha)      sown                    product                     (KZT)
                           total    By                Ref.No KZT
  in the            area,
                                   kinds
  fields         including
   map             fallow
                    land)




Agrotechnology Reference Number:

Payment of insurance premium on one-time basis shall be made not later than ____ banking days after
signing                                          this                                     Contract.
Payment of insurance premium by installment shall be made on the following terms:
1st installment ___ % of insurance premium at the amount of _______ KZT within _ days after signing
this                                                                                      Contract;
2nd installment ___ % of insurance premium at the amount of _______ KZT until ___________ 2011.

Insurer _________________        Insured _______________
      (signature, stamp)            (signature, stamp)




                                           - 252 -
Annex 2.3. 2009/2010 Normative Costs of Production for Spring Wheat by Oblast and by Zone
(KZT/Hectare)

                                                              Science-   Simplified   Costs based on 3
                                                           based Agro-     Agro-      types of expenses
                                                            technology   Technology    (salary, fuels &
                                                                                        lubricants and
 Oblast              Agro-ecological Zone                                                   seeds)
 Akmola              2nd Steppe Zone                          8,175        6,239           3,457
 Akmola              3rd Dry Steppe                           8,511        5,787           3,426
 Aktobe              II Steppe Zone                           9,489        6,678           3,789
 Aktobe              III Dry Steppe Zone                      8,606        6,033           3,739
 Aktobe              IV Semi-Desertic Zone                    5,758        3,318           1,923
 Aktobe              V Desert Zone                            5,719        2,978           1,920
 Almaty              Irrigated V Desert Zone                 10,960        7,183           3,822
 Almaty              IV Priedmont Desert Steppe Zone         10,964        7,183           3,829
 Almaty              IX Central Asian Rock Zone              10,788        7,059           3,737
 Almaty              Rainfed VI Priedmont Desert Steppe       8,396        5,559           3,551
 Almaty              IX Central Asian Rock Zone               7,939        5,529           3,580
 EKO                 II Steppe Zone                           8,050        5,295           3,307
 EKO                 III Dry Steppe Zone                      8,545        5,201           3,412
 EKO                 IV Semi-desertic Zone                    8,298        5,078           3,357
 EKO                 V Desert Zone                            7,678        5,078           3,235
 EKO                 VI Priedmont Desert Steppe Zone          7,678        5,078           3,319
 EKO                 IX Central Asian Rock Zone               7,664        5,078           3,404
 EKO                 X South Siberian Rock Zone               7,490        5,078           3,482
 Karanganda Oblast   III Dry Steppe Zone                      7,252        5,306           2,648
 Karanganda Oblast   IV Semi-desertic Zone                    7,405        5,553           2,521
 Karanganda Oblast   V Desert Zone                            7,295        5,408           2,355
 Kostanay Oblast     II Steppe Zone                           9,489        6,678           3,789
 Kostanay Oblast     III Dry Steppe Zone                      8,606        6,033           3,739
 Kostanay Oblast     IV Semi-desertic Zone                    8,580        5,666           3,824
 Kostanay Oblast     V Desert Zone                            8,375        5,443           3,682
 Kyzylorda Oblast    V Desert Zone (Irrigated)               10,302        6,851           3,071
 NKO                 I Forest Steppe Zone                    10,511        7,259           3,686
 NKO                 II Steppe Zone                           9,053        6,333           3,663
 Pavlodar Oblast     II Steppe Zone                           8,762        5,739           3,642
 Pavlodar Oblast     III Dry Steppe Zone                      8,502        5,890           3,015
 SKO                 Irrigated VII Subtropic Desert Zone     11,225        7,381           3,939
                     VIII Subtropic Priedmont Desert
 SKO                 Zone                                    11,053        7,258           3,852
 SKO                 IX Central Asian Rock Zone              11,022        7,212           3,784
 SKO                 Rainfed V Desert Zone                    8,867        5,741           3,506
 SKO                 VI Priedmont Desert Steppe Zone          8,801        5,697           3,504
                                               - 253 -
                            VIII Subtropic Priedmont Desert
 SKO                        Zone                                 8,757    5,697   3,476
 SKO                        IX Central Asian Rock Zone           8,620    5,574   3,397
 WKO                        III Dry Steppe Zone                  5,887    3,606   2,159
 WKO                        IV Semi-desertic Zone                5,767    3,839   2,112
 WKO                        V Desert Zone                        5,502    3,136   2,074
 Zhambyl Oblast             Irrigated V Desert Zone              14,118   8,540   4,748
 Zhambyl Oblast             VI Priedmont Desert Steppe Zone      13,577   8,011   5,039
 Zhambyl Oblast             IX Central Asian Rock Zone           12,330   7,764   4,857
 Zhambyl Oblast             Rainfed VI Priedmont Desert Steppe   8,131    5,511   3,539
Source: GORK, Regulation of 25 March 2009, No 410




                                                      - 254 -
Annex 3: Kazakhstan: Mandatory Crop Insurance Results
The mandatory crop insurance scheme in Kazakhstan has been implemented since the crop year 2005.
Evolution of Insured Area, Sum Insured and Premiums
Owing to its mandatory feature the crop insurance program is issuing a significant number of
insurance policies each year. According to the Fund for Financial support in Agriculture (FFSA), the
mandatory crop insurance scheme has been insuring an average of 23,420 insurance policies per year,
with the peak number of policies issued under the program during the crop year 2007 with 34,000
thousand policies issued. The average area per insurance policy is 560 hectares.

Figure A3.1. Number of Crop Insurance Policies issued from 2005 to 2010

                                                                                     Number of Insurance policies (2005-2010)
                                                              40.0                                                                                 1,000




                                                                                                                                                         Avg. Area per Insured Policy
                                Insurance Policies (in'000)




                                                              35.0
                                                                                                                                                   800
                                                              30.0
                                                              25.0                                                                                 600
                                                              20.0




                                                                                                                                                                    (hes)
                                                              15.0                                                                                 400
                                                              10.0
                                                                                                                                                   200
                                                               5.0
                                                               0.0                                                                                 0
                                                                            2005       2006          2007       2008       2009        2010
                                                                              Insured Policies (in ' 000)         Avg. Area per Insurance Policy
                                                                                                                                                                                        Source:
FFSA 2011
The level of adoption of crop insurance in wheat has increased since the inception of the program in
2005. The trend during the period 2005-2010 was to increase the area insured in the program. The total
insured area under the mandatory crop insurance program in Kazakhstan has increased from an insured
area of 10.5 million hectares in 2005, to 12.7 million hectares in 2010.

Figure A3.2. Evolution of the Total Insured Area from 2005 to 2010 (Million Hectares)

                                                                      Evolution of the Total Insured Area (2005-2010)
                              16.0
    Planted Area (hectares)




                              14.0
                              12.0
                              10.0
                               8.0                                                                                         15.0
                                                                                                               14.5
                               6.0                                                               12.1                                  12.7
                                                                     10.5
                               4.0                                                  9.1
                               2.0
                               0.0
                                                                     2005          2006         2007       2008           2009         2010
                                                                                              Insured Area

                              Source: FFSA, 2011
The crop insurance portfolio is concentrated on spring crops. During the period 2005-2010, the spring
crops accounted, on average, for 98 percent of the total insured area during the period. There are some
minor areas of winter crops (e.g. winter sown cereals) in the south of Kazakhstan. Out of the spring

                                                                                                     - 255 -
crops, spring wheat, accounting for 86 percent of the total crop area, is the main insured crop in
Kazakhstan.

Figure A3.3. Distribution of Crop Insurance Portfolio between Winter and Spring crops 2005-10 (% of total
insured area)

                               Distribution of the crop insurance portfolio
                              between winter and spring crops (2005-2010)
                                                         2%




                                                           98%

                                         Spring Crop     Winter Crop

Source: FFSA, 2011

Despite the mandatory nature of the crop insurance scheme, the levels of adoption of this risk transfer
financial tool is not 100%. Over the period 2005-2010, and average of 73 percent of the total planted area
of the compulsorily insurable crop in Kazakhstan has been insured. The program experienced issues in
2005 during its first year of implementation. Because of this reason the level of adoption of crop
insurance was reduced in 2006 to only 59 percent of total insurable area in the second year of
implementation. During the crop years 2008 and 2009, the adoption of crop insurance reached its highest
level of uptake in 2008, the total insured area accounted for 84 percent of the total planted area in the
country.

Figure A3.4.Evolution of Insured Area as a percentage of Total Planted Area 2005-2010

                                Evolution of the Total Planted and the Insured Area (2005-2010)
                             100%
                                                               22%             16%     18%
   Planted Area (hectares)




                                       30%                                                        32%
                             80%                   41%

                             60%

                             40%                               78%             84%     82%
                                       70%                                                        68%
                                                   59%
                             20%

                              0%
                                      2005         2006         2007        2008       2009   2010
                                                   Insured Area     Not Insured Area

                              Source: FFSA, 2011
The insured area expressed as a percentage of the total planted area of insurable crops is not
homogeneous across the different Oblasts in the country. In the northernmost Oblasts of NKO,
Kostanay and Akmola, where average rainfall is relatively high and where the major spring wheat
farming areas are located, a very high percentage or more than 75% of the total crop area has been insured
over the past 6 years. Conversely, in the southern areas of Kazakhstan where average farm size is much
smaller and where crop production takes place under irrigation, the ratio of insured area over total crop
                                                                     - 256 -
area is much lower. For instance, in Almaty – where crop production mostly take place under irrigation-
the ratio between insured area and total crop area is lower than in any northern Oblast.

Map A3.1. Average Insured Area as a percent of Total cultivated Area per Oblast (2005-2010)




Source: FFSA, 2011

The total sum insured of the compulsory crop insurance program has increased over the past 6 years.
The trend along the period 2005-2010 was to increase the total sum insured in the program. The total sum
insured under the mandatory crop insurance program in Kazakhstan increased from KZT 34.4 billion in
2005, to KZT 47.3 billion in 2010. The fall in the total sum insured in the crop year 2006 was due to the
reduced crop insurance uptake during this year. The reduction on the uptake of insurance was due to
problems the program experienced during the prior 2005 crop season.

Figure A3.5. Evolution of Total Sum Insured on the Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme 2005-10 (KZT Billion)

                                          Evolution of the Total Sum Insured (2005-2010)
                                60.0
     Sum Insured (billion KZT




                                50.0
                                40.0
                                30.0
                                                                                      52.9
                                                                              46.6           47.3
                                20.0
                                       34.4                      34.8
                                                  26.7
                                10.0
                                 0.0
                                       2005       2006          2007           2008   2009   2010
                                                         Sum Insured (billion KZT)

Source: FFSA, 2011

                                                                   - 257 -
The sum insured is not homogeneously distributed across the country. The major concentration of
insured liability (total sum insured) is observed in the main crop production areas (Akmola, Kostanay,
and NKO). These three oblasts account for 77 percent of the total sum insured under the mandatory crop
insurance scheme. Within the areas comprised by these Oblasts, the central and north rayons of Kostanay,
the rayons situated in the southwest of NKO, and the rayons situated in the western area of Akmola
Oblast are those which show the highest risk exposures in Kazakhstan.

Map A3.2. Distribution of Average Total Annual Sum Insured by Oblast and by Rayon 2005-10 (KZT Million)




Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA results 2011

The average sum insured per hectare is very low in Kazakhstan. The average sum insured is equivalent
to the normative cost which is determined for each crop and rayon on each year by MoA (See Annex 2.3
for full details of 2009-10 normative costs per hectare for each insured crop in each Oblast). The
normative cost determined by MoA is usually very low. An analysis for the average normative cost for
wheat in the period 2005-2010 shows that the average normative cost for this period was KZT 2,380 per
hectare, being the average maximum the normative cost for wheat the one established by MoA for the
crop season 2010, KZT 3728 per hectare and the minimum the one established by MoA for wheat crop
season 2007, KZT 2871/hectare.




                                                 - 258 -
Figure A3.6. Evolution of the Average Sum Insured per Hectare 2005-2010 (KZT/Ha)

                                                    Evolution of the Average Sum Insured per hectare (2005-2010)
                                          4,000.0
     Average Sum Insured ( KZT/hectare)

                                                                                                                                               3,728
                                          3,500.0                                                                              3,532
                                                            3,288                                              3,226
                                          3,000.0                          2,935           2,871
                                          2,500.0
                                          2,000.0
                                          1,500.0
                                          1,000.0
                                            500.0
                                              0.0
                                                      2005             2006           2007            2008             2009              2010

                                              Source: FFSA, 2011

The equivalent wheat covered yields are extremely low. As a result of the extremely low average sum
insured per hectare, the equivalent wheat yield covered under this insurance program is also very low.
The average equivalent wheat yield covered under the mandatory crop insurance scheme during the
period 2005-2010 was only 1.6 centrums per hectare (160 Kg/Ha). Owing to the uptrend in the price of
international agricultural commodities, the average wheat yield equivalent to the average sum insured
shows a decreasing trend during the same period. The wheat prices in Kazakhstan have increased 3.5
times during the period 2005 to 2010, from KZT 1,149 per centrum in 2005 to KZT 3,988 per Centrum in
2010. During the same period the average normative costs of production/average sum insured per hectare
has only increased marginally from KZT 3,288 per hectare in 2005 to KZT 3,728 per hectare in 2010,an
increase equivalent to 14 percent only over 6 years (Figure A3.6). As a result of the increase in the price
of wheat and the relative low increase in the insured normative costs of production, the average wheat
yield equivalent to the average sum insured has been reduced significantly from an average level in 2005
of 2.86 centrums per hectare, to less than one centrum per hectare in 2010 (Figure A3.7).

Figure A3.7. Evolution of Average wheat prices used to value crop salvage (KZT/centrum) and equivalent
Insured Spring Wheat Crop Yields (Centrum’s per hectare).

                                                Evolution of wheat yield equivalent coverage and wheat average farm
                                                                       gate prices (2005-2010)
                                          4,500.0                                                                                               3.50
                                                                                                                                                       Wheat yield equivalent (centrum/he)
 Wheat Prices ( KZT/Centrum)




                                          4,000.0                                                                                      3,988    3.00
                                          3,500.0
                                                       2.86                                             3,083                                   2.50
                                          3,000.0                        2.30
                                          2,500.0                                                                      2,560                    2.00
                                                                                       2,221
                                          2,000.0                                                                                               1.50
                                                                                       1.29                            1.38
                                          1,500.0                                                       1.05
                                                         1,149           1,277                                                         0.93     1.00
                                          1,000.0
                                            500.0                                                                                               0.50
                                              0.0                                                                                               0.00
                                                     2005           2006            2007           2008            2009           2010


                                                              Price (KZT/centrum)               Wheat Yield Equivalent (Centrum/he)



Source: FSSA (2011), JS "KazAgroMarketing"
                                                                                              - 259 -
Average Premium rates have been declining since the inception of the program in 2005. Two periods
can be distinguished in terms of premium rates application. The first period comprises the first three years
of the implementation of the mandatory crop insurance program (2005, 2006, and 2007). During this
period the average premium rates for the program were maintained relatively high between 2.60% and
2.90%. The second period comprises the last three years of the program (2008, 2009, and 2010). During
the last three years of application of the program the average premium rate fell from an average of 2.68
percent for the three-year period 2005-2007, to only 2.24 percent on average between 2008 and 2010. The
reason is because GoK decided to modify the rates for the mandatory crop insurance program and to
permit companies to charge flexible rates between an agreed maximum and minimum. Competition
especially among the Mutual Insurance companies which have been permitted to underwrite this program
since 2008 means that average rates have been forced down to the minimum levels set by government.
(Figure A3.8).

Figure A3.8. Evolution of Average Premium Rates 2005 to 2010 (rate as % of sum insured)

                                            Evolution of the Average Premium rate (2005-2010)
                                  3.00%
  Average Premium Rate ( % TSI)




                                  2.90%                            2.87%
                                  2.80%
                                  2.70%
                                  2.60%      2.61%
                                                        2.57%
                                                                                         y = -0.001x + 0.0282
                                  2.50%
                                                                                              R² = 0.5008
                                  2.40%
                                                                                 2.34%
                                  2.30%                                                                  2.27%
                                  2.20%
                                  2.10%                                                     2.11%
                                  2.00%
                                          2005       2006       2007         2008        2009        2010

Source: Authors from FSSA (2011)

The average premium rates charged by the companies are not homogenous throughout the country.
The average premium rate at national level for the period 2008-2010 was 2.24 percent. However, different
Oblasts throughout the country show different premium rates according to the risk they face. For instance,
the Oblasts situated in the main crop production areas in the country (Kostanay, NKO and Akmola ) show
lower average premium rates – 1.66 percent in average - than those Oblast situated in more risky areas
from the agricultural production standpoint of view such as in WKO – 7.42 percent- or Pavlodar Oblast –
3.24 percent. The same situation is observed at rayon level within an Oblast. Those rayons situated in low
risk areas from the agricultural production standpoint of view, show lower average premium rates than
those rayons situated in high risk agricultural production areas in the same Oblast. (Map A3.3.).




                                                                       - 260 -
Map A3.3. Average Crop Insurance premium rates charged by Rayon and by Oblast 2008-2010




Source: Authors based on FSSA 2011

Analysis of Claims on Compulsory Crop Insurance Scheme
The program shows acceptable levels of claims frequency. Over the six year period on average claims
have been declared on 5.9 percent of the total policies issued under the program each year. Out of the 5.9
percent insurance policies denounced, 79 percent of these declared losses resulted in a claims payment by
insurers. For each of the insurance policies denounced to the insurance company an average of 1.3 field-
based inspections were carried out. Each inspection represents an additional cost for the MoA/FFSA and
the Insurers. (Figure 3.9).


Figure A3.9. Claims Frequency by year (percent of policies declaring a loss and receiving a claims payment)

                                 Claim Frequency (2005-2010)
      14.0%
      12.0%
      10.0%
       8.0%
       6.0%
       4.0%
       2.0%
       0.0%
                 2005        2006           2007       2008    2009        2010

Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA results

                                                   - 261 -
The value of paid claims has increased significantly in the past three years which also coincide which
bad drought years. The average value of paid claims paid is KZT 1.37 billion per year: the lowest claims
were incurred in 2006 and the highest claims valued at nearly KZT 2.8 billion were paid in 2010. The
claims data for 2010 should be interpreted carefully. The expected return period for a drought with the
severity that the one occurred in 2010 is 1 every 50 or more years. The annual average loss cost (annual
claims divided by annual total liability and expressed as a percentage) for the mandatory crop insurance
program in Kazakhstan is 3.21 percent over the past 6 years. The lowest loss cost value observed during
the period 2005-2010 is 1.79 percent in 2006. The highest loss cost value observed during the period
2005-2010 was observed as consequence of the drought of 2010 when total losses reached 5.93% of the
liabilities written under the crop insurance program during that year. (Figure A3.10)

Figure A3.10. Evolution of Paid Claims (KZT Billion) and Annual Loss Cost (2005-2010)


                                         Evolution of claims and average loss cost for the Program (2005-2010)
                                     7.00%                                                                          3.00
  Average Loss Cost ( Claims/ TSI)




                                                                                                                           Total Claims (KZT billions)
                                     6.00%                                                                  5.93%   2.50
                                     5.00%
                                                                                                                    2.00
                                     4.00%
                                                                                      3.67%                         1.50
                                     3.00%        3.10%
                                                                                                 2.77%
                                                                                                                    1.00
                                     2.00%                   1.79%
                                                                        2.01%

                                     1.00%                                                                          0.50

                                     0.00%                                                                          0.00
                                              2005        2006       2007       2008          2009       2010

Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA results

The main cause of loss under the mandatory crop insurance scheme is drought. Drought events have
accounted for 91.5 percent of the total damaged area in the period 2006-2010. Including the losses due to
drought in combination with other perils such as hail or freeze, the importance of drought peril in the total
losses of mandatory crop insurance scheme rises to 97 percent. The second most important cause of loss
over the past six years has been hail storm accounting for 2.5 percent of the total damaged area. Finally,
losses due to excess moisture and freeze have been insignificant to date. (Figure A3.11).




                                                                            - 262 -
Figure A3.11. Main Causes of Loss on Compulsory Crop Insurance Program (% of damaged area)


          Kazakhstan Mandatory Crop Insurance : Main Causes of Losses




                                                              Drought & Freeze
                                                                   1.5%
                                                                  Drought &
                                                                  Hailstorms
            Drought                                                 4.0%
             91.5%                                             Excess of Moisture
                                                                      0.3%
                                                                    Freeze
                                                                     0.2%
                                                                   Hailstorms
                                                                     2.5%




Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA results


The claims pattern is very different in the different geographic regions of the country and according to
the differential drought and other climatic risk exposures faced in each region. The average loss cost
for the period 2005-2010 is 3.21 percent. Different areas of the country show different loss costs
according to the risk they face. For instance, the Oblasts situated in the higher rainfall main crop
production areas in the country (Kostanay, NKO and Akmola Oblast) show very low average 6-year loss
costs varying from 0.5 percent to 2 percent of the total liabilities. Conversely the Oblasts situated in the
much drier western part of the country show very high loss cost ratios. For instance, WKO show an
average loss cost ratio of 39.6 percent of the total liability. Aktobe, which is situated between the main
crop production area and WKO, also shows a very high average loss cost ratio of 22.2% between 2005
and 2010 The central and eastern Oblasts of Kazakhstan (Karaganda, EKO and Almaty) show loss cost
values between 4.6 percent and 6.1 percent. The southernmost Oblast in Kazakhstan, where crop
production is mostly irrigated, show loss cost ratios lower than 1 percent of the total liabilities. (Map
A3.4).

The claims pattern also varies considerably within Oblasts at the Rayon level which clearly indicates a
need to introduce a system or Rayon-level actuarial rating. Loss cost values for the period 2005-2010
also vary very locally. Even within a same Oblast it is possible to find very dissimilar loss costs for
different rayons. For instance, in Akmola Oblast the rayons situated in the eastern areas of the Oblast,
which is dryer than the rest of the Oblast, show higher loss cost ratios than the north-western rayons of
Akmola Oblast which enjoy higher average rainfall and are therefore less risky. (Map A3.4).




                                              - 263 -
Map A3.4. Spring Wheat: 6-Year Average Loss Costs per Oblast and Rayon




Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA results


Analysis of Mandatory Crop Insurance Program Results 2005 to 2010

Overall, the mandatory crop insurance program has been unprofitable over the past 6 years. . The
average gross loss ratio for the program for the period 2005 to 2010 is 140 percent prior to the operation
of the government 50% claims compensation scheme. This means that the gross claims paid under the
program have been 40 percent higher than the premiums collected from the program. This loss ratio
indicates that the program has not been financially sustainable along its history. Only in two years (2006
and 2007) out of the six years of the series have the premiums been higher than the claims. After
application of the Government‘s 50% claims subsidy payments, the average loss ratio for the insurance
companies over the past 6 years has been 75% on completion of the 2010 season. (Table A3.1 and Figure
A3.12).

Over the past three years the crop insurance results have deteriorated. Over the past three years the
program has incurred major drought losses with loss ratios of 156% in 2008, 131% in 2009 and then
finally 261% in 2010. This indicates that the scheme is under-rated and that local scheme management
needs to review where the major claims are occurring and to take necessary actions to reverse this trend.
The loss ratio for year 2010 should be considered carefully. The recurrence period for a drought like the
one occurred in 2010 is 1 year out of about 50 years. Having said it would not be fair for the calculation
of the expected loss ratios to load in full the losses due to 2010 drought.




                                             - 264 -
Table A3.1. Summary of Crop Insurance Results (Premiums, Claims and Loss Ratios) 2005 to 2010

 Item                                  2005      2006       2007       2008    2009     2010                       Total
 No. of Policies (000)                    19.0     13.6        25.4     34.0     32.2     16.8                                 141.0
 Total Insured Area (Million Ha)          10.5      9.1        12.1     14.5     15.0     12.7                                  73.8
 Sum Insured (Million KZT)             34,372    26,650     34,796    46,645   52,903   47,266                     242,631
 Premiums (Million KZT)                   899      685          997    1,093    1,114    1,074                                 5,862
 Average Premium Rate %                2.61%     2.57%      2.87%      2.34%   2.11%    2.27%                                  2.42%
 Claim payments (Million KZT)            1,065     478          701    1,710    1,465    2,805                                 8,223
 Loss Ratio (%)                          119%      70%         70%     156%    131%     261%                                   140%
 Loss cost (%)                           3.1%     1.8%         2.0%     3.7%    2.8%     5.9%                                  3.4%

 FFSA Compensation (Million KZT)          520      236          350      819     693     1,225                                 3,843
 FFSA Compensation % of total
 claims                                  49%       49%         50%      48%      47%      44%                                   47%
 Loss Ratio % (Net of FFSA support)      61%       35%         35%      81%      69%    147%                                    75%
Source: FFSA 2011

Figure A3.12. Crop Insurance Program Summary of premium, claims and loss ratio (2005-10)

                    Evolution of premium, claims and loss ratio (2005-2010)
        300%                                                                              3.00




                                                                                                 Total Claims (KZT billions)
        250%                                                                              2.50

        200%                                                                              2.00

        150%                                                                              1.50

        100%                                                                              1.00

        50%                                                                               0.50

         0%                                                                               0.00
                   2005         2006      2007          2008          2009      2010


Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA data

The analysis of the crop insurance program results clearly shows that some Oblasts and Rayons with
good performance over time are cross subsidizing the rates and claims of poor performing Oblasts and
Rayons. In general the low risk Oblasts and Rayons are subsidizing the high risk Oblasts and Rayons. For
instance, the 6-year average loss ratio for NKO at end of 2010 was only 24 percent, which indicates that
the program is making considerable profits in this Oblast. On account of the very low loss ratio inn NKO,
there is scope to reduce the average premium rates offered to farmers in this Oblast. However, this
reduction in the price for insurance to NKO farmers‘ will not happen because, the profit obtained by the
system from NKO is used to compensate or cross-subsidise the major recurrent losses in some of the
other Oblasts. (See loss ratios in Map A3.5.)

Over the past 6 years the compulsory crop insurance program has performed very poorly in WKO and
Aktobe which are located in the drier western regions of Kazakhstan and the results in these two
Oblasts are negatively affecting the overall financial viability of the program. Over the past 6 years,
2005 to 2010 WKO and Aktobe have accounted for a very small <5% of total scheme liability (Total Sum
Insured) and less than 13% of total earned premium: however, these two Oblasts have incurred total
                                                  - 265 -
claims valued at KZT 31.1 billion or nearly 41% of the total claims on the scheme. This major imbalance
means that at end 2006 the long term loss ratio in WKO stands at 507% and in Aktobe 381% which is not
sustainable and which is prejudging the financial viability of the whole compulsory crop insurance
scheme. (Map A3.5. and Appendix A3.2)

The analysis also shows that there is also considerable variation in risk exposures and loss rati o’s
within each Oblast and this implies a need to introduce a system of Rayon by Rayon actuarially
determined crop insurance premium rates. For example in Kostanay Oblast which has an average 6
year-loss ratio of only 73%, there is a wide range in premium: claims experience at the individual rayon
level varying from 0% to 5% loss ratio in the north (higher average rainfall) to as high as 320% - 640% in
one rayon in the south west. In WKO which has experienced very high losses over time (21% of total
claims), the loss ratios vary between 160%-320% and >1280% loss ratio. This evidence suggests the
need to introduce a system of zonal rating at a more disaggregated level than the Oblast.

Map A3.5. Kazakhstan Crop Insurance Program: Average Loss Ratios (2005-2010) by Oblast and by Rayon




Source: Authors based on FSSA 2011


AS IF Analysis

The mandatory crop insurance scheme was tested through an As if analysis. . The As if analysis is a
standard practice of the insurance and reinsurance industry for property treaty underwriting. The As If
consists of simulating what would be the results of any particular program by assuming changes in the
terms and conditions of the treaty. For the case of Kazakhstan, the analysis consisted of two steps. The
first step consisted of performing an analysis in order to see what would be the results of the program
under the assumptions that the total sum insured in the program follows the same geographical
distribution per rayon and Oblast as for the period 2009-2010. The second step of this AS IF consisted in
estimating the rates that would be necessary to ask in order to reach a target loss ratio for the program of
60 percent in each Rayon and in each Oblast.

                                              - 266 -
The aggregate loss ratio for the scheme, assuming a requested premium rate in average for the years
2009 and 2010, is expected to be worse than the loss ratio based on the actual historic conditions
observed for each of the years since the inspection of the program . The reason for such deterioration in
the expected loss ratio for the scheme is because of the erosion of the annual average premium rates for
the program. The average annual rates for the program have passed from a high of 2.87% in 2007 to a low
average of 2.27% in 2010. This represents a reduction on the rates of 10% in respect to the previous year.
As a result of the impact in the reduction of the rates, the expected loss ratio (considering other factors as
ceteris paribus) would have risen from 146% to 163%. The graph in Figure A3.13 presents this analysis.

Figure A3.13. Comparison between the Historic As If Claims and Loss Ratio 2005 to 2010

                                      Comparisson between the historic AS IF and force, claims and loss
                                                           ratio (2005-2010)
                                   300.00%
     Total Claims (KZT billions)




                                   250.00%

                                   200.00%

                                   150.00%

                                   100.00%

                                    50.00%

                                     0.00%
                                                2006         2007          2008         2009          2010


Source: Author‘s analysis of FFSA data

Crop Insurance premium rates at Rayon and Oblast level under the mandatory crop insurance scheme
should be adjusted on an actuarial basis and where necessary increased to achieve a target loss ratio of
no more than about 60% and in order to ensure the program is financially sustainable in future. The
second step of the As If analysis was to simulate how much the current Oblast premium rates (average
2009-2010) should be increased in order to reach an average loss ratio of 60 percent for the scheme. In
order to reach such ratio of 60%, the rates have to be increased in average 148.8 percent from the last two
years average rate, 2.09%, to 5.20% which is the rate that is required to achieve a 60% loss ratio in each
Rayon and Oblast. This increase on the rates will need to be very significant in those rayons situated in
WKO (average premium rate increase to achieve 60% target loss ratio from 7.8% to about 46%), in
Akmola (average premium rate of 5.8% would need to be increased to about 37%, and in Pavlodar (actual
average rate 3.6% will need to increase to 13.1%) and in EKO from 3.4% to 8.6%. In Zhambyl Oblast
southern Kazakhstan which has underwritten a very small crop insurance portfolio over the past 6 years,
the results have also been poor and the average premium rates would need to increase from 3.5% to 21%
to achieve the 60% target loss ratio. (See Map A3.6. for As If Rate increases per Rayon and Oblast and
actual average rates per Oblast are shown in Appendix A3.2.)

Map A3.6. As If Crop Insurance Average Premium Rates per Oblast and per Rayon to achieve a target loss ratio
of 60%.




                                                                      - 267 -
Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA data




                                         - 268 -
- 269 -
- 270 -
Annex 3, Appendix 1. Kazakhstan Summary of Crop Insurance Results by Year 2005 to 2010
                               Total                      Avg Sum
                                                                                         Avg         Claim
                  No. of      Insured      Sum Insured     Insured        Premiums                              Loss Ratio    Loss cost
   Year                                                                                Premium     payments
                 Policies      Area         ('000 TH)       (KZT         ('000 KZT)                                (%)          (%)
                                                                                         Rate     ('000 KZT)
                             (Hectares)                   /Hectare)

         2005      19,008     10,454,252     34,372,458          3,288      898,607       2.61%     1,064,870          119%       3.10%
         2006      13,619      9,078,612     26,650,054          2,935      684,722       2.57%      477,670           70%        1.79%
         2007      25,446     12,119,581     34,796,059          2,871      997,392       2.87%      700,538           70%        2.01%
         2008      33,957     14,460,541     46,644,737          3,226     1,093,232      2.34%     1,709,623          156%       3.67%
         2009      32,165     14,979,524     52,902,505          3,532     1,114,366      2.11%     1,465,129          131%       2.77%
         2010      16,766     12,678,405     47,265,625          3,728     1,073,639      2.27%     2,804,945          261%       5.93%
 Total            140,961     73,770,915    242,631,438          3,289     5,861,958      2.42%     8,222,776          140%       3.39%
Source: FFSA 2011


Annex3, Appendix 2. Annual Crop Insurance Results after application of FFSA 50% Claims Subsidy
 Item                                       2005          2006           2007          2008       2009          2010          Total
 No. of Policies (000)                          19.0          13.6         25.4           34.0       32.2          16.8          141.0
 Total Insured Area (Million Ha)                10.5           9.1         12.1           14.5       15.0          12.7            73.8
 Sum Insured (Million KZT)                    34,372      26,650         34,796         46,645     52,903       47,266         242,631
 Premiums (Million KZT)                          899          685           997          1,093      1,114         1,074          5,862
 Average Premium Rate %                        2.61%       2.57%          2.87%         2.34%      2.11%         2.27%          2.42%
 Claim payments (Million KZT)                  1,065          478           701          1,710      1,465         2,805          8,223
 Loss Ratio (%)                                119%           70%          70%           156%       131%         261%            140%
 Loss cost (%)                                  3.1%        1.8%           2.0%          3.7%       2.8%          5.9%            3.4%

 FFSA Compensation (Million KZT)                 520          236           350           819         693         1,225          3,843
 FFSA Compensation % of total
 claims                                         49%           49%          50%            48%        47%           44%            47%
 Loss Ratio % (Net of FFSA support)             61%           35%          35%            81%        69%         147%             75%
Source: FFSA 2011




                                                    - 271 -
Annex 3, Appendix 3. Kazakhstan Summary of Crop Insurance Results by Oblast (2005-2010)
                              Total        % of          Sum              Avg Sum                              Avg        Claim        % of
                 No. of                                            % of               Premiums       % of                                       Loss    Loss
      Oblast                 Insured     Insured       Insured             Insured                           Premium    payments      Claims
                Policies                                           TSI                ('000 KZT)   Premium                                      Ratio   cost
                            Area (Ha)      Area      ('000 KZT)           (KZT/Ha)                             Rate    ('000 KZT)    Payments
Akmola             11,505   19,007,668     25.8%      60,701,280    25%       3,194    1,176,023       20%      1.9%     1,229,528       15%    105%     2.0%
Aktobe              3,824    2,283,860      3.1%       7,306,712     3%       3,199      425,673        7%      5.8%     1,620,556       20%    381%    22.2%
Almaty             23,362    1,281,919      1.7%       5,772,595     2%       4,503      201,019        3%      3.5%       264,704        3%    132%     4.6%
EKO                17,137    3,508,694      4.8%      12,393,819     5%       3,532      419,989        7%      3.4%       740,631        9%    176%     6.0%
Karaganda           5,708    2,788,646      3.8%       6,700,677     3%       2,403      314,790        5%      4.7%       315,953        4%    100%     4.7%
Kostanay           19,657   21,618,796     29.3%      74,659,628    31%       3,453    1,300,112       22%      1.7%       942,639       11%     73%     1.3%
Kyzylorda           1,160      279,814      0.4%       1,268,097     1%       4,532       65,819        1%      5.2%         1,165        0%      2%     0.1%
NKO                14,475   16,310,981     22.1%      53,470,496    22%       3,278    1,081,629       18%      2.0%       254,290        3%     24%     0.5%
Pavlodar            4,318    3,395,155      4.6%       9,997,225     4%       2,945      355,498        6%      3.6%       708,106        9%    199%     7.1%
SKO                31,904      583,280      0.8%       3,146,062     1%       5,394       83,916        1%      2.7%        25,277        0%     30%     0.8%
WKO                 2,944    2,033,252      2.8%       4,276,128     2%       2,103      333,614        6%      7.8%     1,691,907       21%    507%    39.57%
Zhambyl             4,967      678,850      0.9%       2,938,718     1%       4,329      103,875        2%      3.5%       428,021        5%    412%    14.56%

Total 2005-10     140,961   73,770,915    100.0%     242,631,438   100%      42,865    5,861,958      100%     2.42%     8,222,776      100%    140%    3.39%

Source: Authors‘ analysis of FFSA data




                                                   - 272 -
Annex 3, Appendix 4. Actual Crop Insurance Results by Oblast and by Year (2005 to 2010)

                                                             Avge. Sum
                No. of     Total Insured    Sum Insured                      Premiums ('000 Avg Premium Claim payments Loss Ratio
  Oblast                                                   Insured per Ha                                                         Loss cost %
               Policies      Area (Ha)       ('000 KZT)                           KZT)         Rate %      ('000 KZT)      %
                                                              (KZT/Ha)

Akmol a            1,837        3,520,477     10,187,199             2,894          213,201       2.09%         150,315       71%       1.48%
Akmol a            1,054        1,940,482      5,489,787             2,829          121,432       2.21%         121,479      100%       2.21%
Akmol a            1,642        2,697,201      7,732,267             2,867          182,150       2.36%         108,898       60%       1.41%
Akmol a            2,177        3,597,384     11,257,865             3,129          198,912       1.77%         241,464      121%       2.14%
Akmol a            2,618        3,746,433     12,825,612             3,423          199,655       1.56%          90,510       45%       0.71%
Akmol a            2,177        3,505,691     13,208,551             3,768          260,673       1.97%         516,861      198%       3.91%
Akmol a           11,505       19,007,668     60,701,280             3,194        1,176,023       1.94%       1,229,528      105%       2.03%

Aktobe               638          245,789        511,186             2,080          44,063        8.62%         135,699      308%      26.55%
Aktobe                13           40,806         70,984             1,740           3,622        5.10%          21,685      599%      30.55%
Aktobe               472          266,415        496,681             1,864          38,283        7.71%          70,471      184%      14.19%
Aktobe               924          573,538      1,921,700             3,351         105,358        5.48%          40,411       38%       2.10%
Aktobe               967          660,656      2,395,023             3,625         126,689        5.29%         383,453      303%      16.01%
Aktobe               810          496,656      1,911,138             3,848         107,659        5.63%         968,837      900%      50.69%
Aktobe             3,824        2,283,860      7,306,712             3,199         425,673        5.83%       1,620,556      381%      22.18%

Al ma ty           1,997           21,149        490,620           23,198           13,933        2.84%          19,443      140%       3.96%
Al ma ty           2,958          155,046        634,430            4,092           19,444        3.06%           3,735       19%       0.59%
Al ma ty           4,436          305,304      1,031,655            3,379           37,736        3.66%         136,577      362%      13.24%
Al ma ty           4,473          260,708      1,019,560            3,911           36,775        3.61%          76,197      207%       7.47%
Al ma ty           5,240          309,652      1,343,940            4,340           47,857        3.56%          19,287       40%       1.44%
Al ma ty           4,258          230,060      1,252,391            5,444           45,273        3.61%           9,465       21%       0.76%
Al ma ty          23,362        1,281,919      5,772,595            4,503          201,019        3.48%         264,704      132%       4.59%

EKO                5,190          370,794      2,221,205             5,990          72,046        3.24%         132,848      184%       5.98%
EKO                2,566          597,731      1,762,944             2,949          59,592        3.38%          41,314       69%       2.34%
EKO                2,988          628,958      1,824,594             2,901          62,788        3.44%          15,813       25%       0.87%
EKO                2,521          712,145      2,389,920             3,356          78,751        3.30%         479,832      609%      20.08%
EKO                2,811          736,307      2,574,412             3,496          82,597        3.21%          53,286       65%       2.07%
EKO                1,061          462,759      1,620,744             3,502          64,215        3.96%          17,538       27%       1.08%
EKO               17,137        3,508,694     12,393,819             3,532         419,989        3.39%         740,631      176%       5.98%

Ka ra ga nda         952          372,604        895,612             2,404          47,259        5.28%          91,652      194%      10.23%
Ka ra ga nda         561          323,740        681,909             2,106          40,169        5.89%          21,432       53%       3.14%
Ka ra ga nda       1,108          528,433      1,128,747             2,136          54,484        4.83%          32,025       59%       2.84%
Ka ra ga nda       1,086          550,958      1,301,119             2,362          59,530        4.58%          75,412      127%       5.80%
Ka ra ga nda       1,238          629,007      1,648,690             2,621          71,751        4.35%          54,879       76%       3.33%
Ka ra ga nda         763          383,904      1,044,600             2,721          41,596        3.98%          40,552       97%       3.88%
Ka ra ga nda       5,708        2,788,646      6,700,677             2,403         314,790        4.70%         315,953      100%       4.72%

Kos ta na y        3,404        3,098,000     11,244,498             3,630          240,641       2.14%          54,986       23%       0.49%
Kos ta na y        3,039        3,051,785      9,378,746             3,073          208,994       2.23%         212,868      102%       2.27%
Kos ta na y        3,267        3,546,038     10,638,960             3,000          219,939       2.07%          32,609       15%       0.31%
Kos ta na y        3,318        3,910,402     13,112,304             3,353          210,599       1.61%          30,450       14%       0.23%
Kos ta na y        3,557        4,174,791     15,768,815             3,777          193,390       1.23%         142,779       74%       0.91%
Kos ta na y        3,072        3,837,780     14,516,305             3,782          226,549       1.56%         468,947      207%       3.23%
Kos ta na y       19,657       21,618,796     74,659,628             3,453        1,300,112       1.74%         942,639       73%       1.26%
Source: FFSA 2011




                                                                  - 273 -
Annex 3, Appendix 4. Continued
Actual Crop Insurance Results by Oblast and by Year (2005 to 2010)

                                                            Avge. Sum
               No. of     Total Insured    Sum Insured                      Premiums ('000 Avg Premium Claim payments Loss Ratio
   Oblast                                                 Insured per Ha                                                         Loss cost %
              Policies      Area (Ha)       ('000 KZT)                           KZT)         Rate %      ('000 KZT)      %
                                                             (KZT/Ha)

Kyzyl orda          102           26,979        134,997             5,004            6,787       5.03%           1,165       17%       0.86%
Kyzyl orda           63           18,476         88,699             4,801            4,755       5.36%               0        0%       0.00%
Kyzyl orda          255           60,683        240,788             3,968           14,082       5.85%               0        0%       0.00%
Kyzyl orda          274           63,342        273,753             4,322           16,014       5.85%               0        0%       0.00%
Kyzyl orda          244           48,739        231,923             4,758           11,653       5.02%               0        0%       0.00%
Kyzyl orda          222           61,595        297,936             4,837           12,527       4.20%               0        0%       0.00%
Kyzyl orda        1,160          279,814      1,268,097             4,532           65,819       5.19%           1,165        2%       0.09%

NKO               2,304        1,917,364      5,982,959             3,120          140,407       2.35%          32,447       23%       0.54%
NKO               2,404        2,345,438      6,896,639             2,940          160,743       2.33%          15,189        9%       0.22%
NKO               2,752        2,781,224      8,075,440             2,904          213,984       2.65%          10,497        5%       0.13%
NKO               2,812        3,245,547     10,339,148             3,186          183,909       1.78%         105,021       57%       1.02%
NKO               2,449        3,192,024     11,376,077             3,564          183,531       1.61%           4,876        3%       0.04%
NKO               1,754        2,829,384     10,800,233             3,817          199,056       1.84%          86,260       43%       0.80%
NKO              14,475       16,310,981     53,470,496             3,278        1,081,629       2.02%         254,290       24%       0.48%

Pa vl oda r         791          489,024      1,550,662             3,171          51,250        3.31%          78,236      153%       5.05%
Pa vl oda r         682          501,193      1,294,177             2,582          49,362        3.81%          34,974       71%       2.70%
Pa vl oda r         732          595,553      1,493,307             2,507          72,775        4.87%          56,169       77%       3.76%
Pa vl oda r         813          708,795      2,184,021             3,081          74,231        3.40%         442,721      596%      20.27%
Pa vl oda r         863          703,882      2,218,821             3,152          65,806        2.97%           5,010        8%       0.23%
Pa vl oda r         437          396,708      1,256,237             3,167          42,073        3.35%          90,996      216%       7.24%
Pa vl oda r       4,318        3,395,155      9,997,225             2,945         355,498        3.56%         708,106      199%       7.08%

SKO                 369            4,662        100,147           21,482             3,446       3.44%             942       27%       0.94%
SKO                   0                0              0                0                 0       0.00%               0        0%       0.00%
SKO               6,510          202,489        927,747            4,582            24,895       2.68%          14,695       59%       1.58%
SKO              13,636          225,331      1,227,412            5,447            32,679       2.66%           9,460       29%       0.77%
SKO              10,312          118,619        747,776            6,304            18,953       2.53%               0        0%       0.00%
SKO               1,077           32,179        142,980            4,443             3,943       2.76%             179        5%       0.13%
SKO              31,904          583,280      3,146,062            5,394            83,916       2.67%          25,277       30%       0.80%

WKO                 700          330,435        653,718             1,978          52,887        8.09%         359,651      680%      55.02%
WKO                  78           37,198         79,518             2,138           7,101        8.93%             682       10%       0.86%
WKO                 510          354,824        640,764             1,806          56,494        8.82%          39,288       70%       6.13%
WKO                 600          452,102        930,454             2,058          71,197        7.65%          20,051       28%       2.15%
WKO                 640          506,230      1,136,179             2,244          90,174        7.94%         672,888      746%      59.22%
WKO                 416          352,463        835,496             2,370          55,762        6.67%         599,347     1075%      71.74%
WKO               2,944        2,033,252      4,276,128             2,103         333,614        7.80%       1,691,907      507%      39.57%

Zha mbyl            724           56,975        399,655             7,015          12,688        3.17%           7,485       59%       1.87%
Zha mbyl            201           66,717        272,221             4,080           9,508        3.49%           4,311       45%       1.58%
Zha mbyl            774          152,459        565,111             3,707          19,781        3.50%         183,495      928%      32.47%
Zha mbyl          1,323          160,289        687,481             4,289          25,276        3.68%         188,605      746%      27.43%
Zha mbyl          1,226          153,184        635,235             4,147          22,309        3.51%          38,161      171%       6.01%
Zha mbyl            719           89,226        379,015             4,248          14,313        3.78%           5,964       42%       1.57%
Zha mbyl          4,967          678,850      2,938,718             4,329         103,875        3.53%         428,021      412%      14.56%
Source: FFSA 2011




                                                                 - 274 -
    Annex 4: Individual Grower MPCI Opportunities for Kazakhstan
This Annex presents the Rating methodology used to derive the individual grower Spring
Wheat Multiple Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) insured yields and premium rates for different
levels of insured yield coverage. The model used termed the Crop Risk Assessment Model,
CRAM, is constructed based on analysis of variation of spring wheat annual average yields for a
17year time-series, from crop year 1994 up to and including the crop year 2010, at the rayon
level.

The CRAM was developed for spring wheat using the sown area, harvested area, production
and annual average yield statistics for each and every Rayon in the following 8 Oblasts: NKO,
Akmola, Kostanay, Karaganda, Pavlodar, EKO, Aktobe, and WKO in North Kazakhstan region.
The original series used for this analysis were provided by the ARKS.

Planted Area

According to information obtained from ARKS, spring wheat crops sown area amount to 13.26
million hectares on average for the period 2007 – 2010. Out of the 13.26 million hectares
planted with spring wheat in North Kazakhstan region, 8.96 hectares (68 percent) are planted by
Agribusiness Enterprises (Production Enterprises) and 4.31 million hectares (32 percent) are
planted by Commercial Farmers. The CRAM assumes that the annual spring wheat planted area
has remained constant at the four year average (period 2007-2010) over the 17 years sown area
series. The reason for this assumption is to remove seasonal variations for each rayon from the
areas.

In order to be eligible for CRAM, two criteria have been set: minimum planted area per region
and a minimum of 17 years continuous annual average yield data. In order to ensure that there
are sufficient numbers of farmers growing the crop in a selected region, a minimum area of
10,000 hectares has been provisionally settled as a requirement for a crop in a certain region to be
eligible for the model. The second criterion, at least 17 continuous years of yield data available
for each rayon to qualify for the CRAM, has been settled to have continuous series in order to
establish possible yield correlations among different production zones.

Rayon Crop Yield Data

The CRAM uses rayon annual average yields for spring wheat crops for the period starting
1994 and up to crop year 2010 as reported by ARKS. The original rayon annual average yields
from 1994 to 2010 are included in Appendix 4.3.

The ARKS reports average yields on sown area basis at rayon level. This is an important
advantage for risk modeling purposes, since the yields on sown capture, both, the variations due
to yield performance as well as the yield variations due to full crop losses.

The ARKS reports average yields for two categories of farm typology, agribusiness enterprises
and commercial farmers. This fact allows CRAM to perform the risk assessment at rayon level
with a breakdown per each type of farm typology.

Valuation Prices



                                              - 275 -
For CRAM risk modeling purposes, spring wheat has been valued at the average market average
price per centner for the period 2008-2010 for the month of September, KZT 3120 per centner.
The crop price is maintained as a constant value for all the past 17 years.

Yield Data Cleaning and trending to establish the Central Tendency

The annual average yield series at zone level used to feed CRAM must be adjusted in order to
reflect the current state of the art in terms of expected yields and yield variability for the
selected crops for the risk assessment. This sub-section describes the methodologies followed to
clean the yield data, determine the trend in yield data and, finally, to adjust the historical yields to
the current expected yield at Region level.

Eliminate Yield Outliers

The first step was to detect and eliminate the statistical outliers from the annual average yield
series for each of the selected crop and regions by applying the Chauvenet100 criteria to each of
the 17 years annual average yield records for each agribusiness enterprises and commercial
farmers on each of the rayon. If, by applying the Chauvenet criteria a yield outlier was detected,
then the annual average crop yield was compared with the annual average crop yield performance
for the same crop and year in the neighboring rayon. If, as result of this comparison, it was
detected that the crop yield performance in the neighboring rayons diverged significantly in
respect to the annual average yield for the target rayon and year, then yield, production, and
harvested area figures were revisited to identify the cause of the divergence.

Adjusting Zonal Average Yield Data for Trends

The crop yield central tendency is associated with crop management and technology practices;
crop yield deviations from the central tendency are associated with effects of nature . The main
objective of adjusting the historic annual average yield series was to isolate the effect on yields of
the improvement on crop management practices and the increase in technology application to the
crops along 17-year period considered for the analysis. A simplified method was adopted for
determining the central tendency for each crop and each zone in the CRAM. The method aims to
capture the non-linear yield tendency in the 17-years of annual average yield series at zonal level
by using this yield series fitted to a lineal trend line and to an exponential trend line, and the five
year moving average the 17 years annual average yield series.

Expected Yields and adjusted crop variability.

The design of the CRAM is based on the spring wheat annual average yields for the period
2006 – 2010 at rayon level and their standard deviation; thus, these inputs must be
representative of the current state of the art of spring wheat crop production in each of the
analyzed rayons. That is, all the long terms and cyclical effects of crop management practice and
of technology application on the historic annual average yields must be isolated prior to
estimating these parameters for risk modeling purposes.




100
   In statistical theory, the Chauvenet‘s Criterion is a means of assessing whether one piece of
experimental data – an outlier- from a set of observations, is likely to be spurious.


                                                  - 276 -
In order to calculate the expected annual average yield for spring wheat for each rayon in the
8 oblasts under analysis, the simple average of the most recent five years historic annual
average yields was calculated. This method to estimate annual average expected yields for a
certain crop located in a certain rayon is common in the agricultural insurance practice in
countries where the constraint of scarce annual average crop yield data is a problem.

The second part of this analysis was to estimate the expected annual average yield volatility of
the annual average yield. The method used for this purpose was to measure the deviations
between the historic actual annual average yields for each year of the series in respect to the
corresponding annual average yield of the trend line. Then, these deviations were applied to the
expected yield to obtain an adjusted annual average yield series.

Modeling Expected Yields

The estimation of losses for the spring wheat crop portfolio was performed through a risk
modeling exercise using the CRAM. Risk modeling is a fundamental step in agricultural
insurance program design and ratemaking procedures. The main objective of crop risk modeling
is to estimate, based on the available information, a yield probability density function that reflects
the stochastic nature of yield outcomes. The yield model relies on two basic fundamentals: (a) a
crop yield probability density function inferred from the historic spring wheat annual average
yields for each rayon and type of farmer in the analyzed portfolio, and (b) a correlation matrix of
rayon-level and farmer-type level spring wheat annual average yields which reflects the covariant
risk under the portfolio. The probability density functions were inferred from the technology
adjusted annual average yields from the annual average yield series 1994 to 2010 that were fitted
to a Weibull probability distribution.
For the purpose of assessing risks for an individual grower multiple peril crop insurance
(MPCI) scheme is necessary to the Probability functions fitted based on rayon level actualized
annual average yields into spring wheat yield probability function that reflect the yield variability
at individual farm level. Individual crop yield variability is always bigger than aggregate rayon
level crop yield variability. The challenge when there is not individual farm level crop yield
records for a significant number of crop years is to infer the probability function for individual
farm yields. International best practice uses several ways to infer individual yields depending on
the availability and quality of the data. One of these ways – which is mostly used in the
international reinsurance market- is to assume, based on the farmer size, increase of 15 percent
on the crop yield variability for individual farmers in respect of the crop yield variability at rayon
level. In order to infer the crop yield probability functions for spring wheat at individual farm
level, the crop yield probability functions fitted based on rayon level actualized annual average
yields were tuned in such way that maintain the same average yield, but increase the coefficient
of variation for the inferred individual farm yields has 15 basis points more than the rayon-level
coefficient of variation of yields.. For instance, commercial farmers spring wheat crop rayon-level
yields in Bulandinsky rayon in Akmola Oblast show an average of 10.8 centner per hectare and
have a standard deviation of 4.1 centners per hectare, which is equal to 38 percent coefficient of
variation in yields. In order to infer individual commercial farmer spring wheat crop yield from
commercial farmer rayon level yields in Bulandinsky rayon in Akmola two assumptions are
made. The first assumption is that the individual farmer expected average yield is equal to the
rayon – level expected average yield. For the case of commercial farmer spring wheat production
in Bulandinsky rayon in Akmola Oblast it is expected in 10.8 centners per hectare; thus,
individual farmers spring wheat yields in Bulandinsky rayon are also expected in 10.8 centners
per hectare.. The second assumption made to infer individual commercial farmer spring wheat


                                               - 277 -
crop yield from commercial farmer rayon level yields is that the coefficient of variation of yields
for an individual farmer will has 15 basis points higher than the coefficient of variation of spring
wheat yields at rayon level. For the case of commercial farmer rayon level spring wheat
production in Bulandinsky rayon in Akmola Oblast the coefficient of variation of spring wheat
yields at individual farm level is 37.57 percent; thus the coefficient of variation of spring wheat
yields for individual farmers are calculated in 52.57 percent. (See Figure A4.1 for details).
 Figure A4..1: Akmola- Bulandinsky: Spring Wheat. Comparisson of Rayon-Level and simulated
 individual farm level yields

                                             Spring Wheat. Akmola-Bulandinski Rayon.
                             4.36       Comparison Rayon-level and Farm-level simulated yields
                                                                17.81
                   0.1
                  0.09
                  0.08
                  0.07
                  0.06
      frequency




                  0.05
                  0.04
                  0.03
                  0.02
                  0.01
                    0
                                                   10




                                                                     15




                                                                                     20




                                                                                                     25




                                                                                                                     30




                                                                                                                            35
                         0




                                    5




                                                                     Yield (Centner/he.)

                                    Spring Wheat Yield Rayon Level               Spring Wheat Yield Individual Farm Level


Source: Authors from CRAM
The outputs of the yield probability density functions obtained for each rayon and type of
farmer were correlated in order to reflect the covariance on yields for risk modeling purposes.
Spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan is exposed to drought which is a very systemic risk.
Variations in spring wheat crop yields are often caused by factors that typically affect a large
area. The issue of a portfolio being exposed to systemic risk, since it affects the degree on which
the risks can be diversified, has severe implications for the design and rating of a crop insurance
program. In light of the systemic risk faced by spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan, the
CRAM considered the correlations among each rayon and type of farmer in order to simulate the
potential losses for the portfolio.

CRAM Simulation
Based on the stochastic distributions defined for each rayon and type of farmer and based on the
spring wheat rayon level correlation matrix, the CRAM, by using @ Risk Software, applies
Monte Carlo methodology and generates 5,000 iterations of yields based on the defined stochastic
function for each rayon and type of farmer which are correlated each other.

CRAM Output
As a result of CRAM a database comprised of 221 combinations of rayon and farm type level
and 5000 yield iterations for each of the combination rayon and farmers‘ type is generated. This


                                                              - 278 -
database is the one used for all subsequent risk assessment and risk pricing purposes for
individual grower spring wheat MPCI.


Crop Portfolio Risk Assessment Model – Rating Exercise
Insured Yield Coverage Levels

Individual Farmer multiple peril crop insurance (MPCI) was device for spring wheat production
in the 8 selected oblasts in north Kazakhstan offering yield coverage levels of between 40%
maximum and 10% minimum of the 5-years average yield for the period 2006-2010.

MPCI rating methodology
MPCI pure loss cost rating methodology

The Technical rates rating methodology is based on standard MPCI rating procedures. The loss
cost formula is given by:



For the MPCI Program, the loss cost formula is given by:




Where,
Y= year, 2006-2010;
U = rayon-farm typology, 1 to 221;
C = crop, spring wheat
Coverage Level is between a minimum of 10% and maximum of 40% of average yield.

Using Contiguous Counties to Smooth Rates

The MPCI insurance pure loss costs obtained for each rayon-type of farmer are smoothed by
utilizing information from contiguous rayons (Skees, 1997). The smoothed pure loss cost for
each rayon-type of farmer is calculated as a weighted average of the pure loss cost for that rayon-
type of farmer and the pure loss cost for each contiguous rayon for the same type of farmer. The
formula to calculate the smoothed pure loss cost is:




The weights are calculated as follows:




Subject to:




                                              - 279 -
Where,              is the weight assigned to the target rayon-type of farmer and
is the average hectares planted in the target rayon over the most recent 4-year period; and




Where,              is the weight assigned to the ith contiguous rayon, and                 is
the average area planted over the most recent 4-year period for each contiguous rayons. All
weights sum to one.

Loading the smoothed pure loss cost rates to derive technical rates

    a) Loading for idiosyncratic risks (Hail, wind, fire, etc.)

Losses due to idiosyncratic risks (e.g. crop hail) are not captured in the yield data used as
underlying for MPCI insurance pure loss costs. Therefore, in order to reflect the impact of
idiosyncratic risk (e.g. crop hail) on rates, a loading factor was included. For the purpose of the
idiosyncratic risk calculation a total loss at spring wheat at field level with recurrence period of
one in 50 years, which is equal to an annual rate of 2 percent of the total sum insured, was
assumed. This rate of 2 percent is applied to the level of coverage and added to the smoothed pure
loss cost rate in order to get a pure loss cost which includes the potential damage due to
idiosyncratic risks.



    b) Security Loadings

A security loading was added to the model in order to consider those infrequent, but potentially
catastrophic losses that were not captured within the 17-years of actual spring wheat crop yield
series used as the basis for risk modeling. With that purpose, the method of risk exposure was
introduced in the rate calculation. The method of risk exposure consists in calculate the loading
factor based on the 1 in 100 year probable maximum loss (PML) for the whole portfolio under the
assumption that a loss approximately equal to the PML will take place within a certain number of
years ahead. For the purposes of the rating calculations for individual grower MPCI in
Kazakhstan it was assumed that a spring wheat portfolio loss similar to the spring wheat PML
will take place within the next 10 years.




Security loadings are Coverage specific. The PML for the portfolio varies according to the
selected level of coverage. Table A4.1 presents the security loadings used to load individual
farmer spring wheat MPCI for the different levels of coverage analysed in the study

Table A4.1. Catastrophe Loadings applied to MPCI pure loss cost rates by Coverage level



                                               - 280 -
Coverage Level         10%              20%                  30%          40%              50%
 PML 1-100%           5.43%           16.80%               28.70%       39.17%           46.98%
 Return Period       10-years         10-years             10-years     10-years         10-years
Loading Factor       0.543%            1.68%                2.87%        3.92%            4.70%
Source: Authors

Finally, the calculation of the technical rates consists on the integration of the smoothed loss
cost calculation, and the loadings due to idiosyncratic risks and catastrophic risks. The formula
summarizing the calculation of the technical rates is presented below:




Loading Technical to derive Commercial Premium Rates

The technical rates calculated by the model are then loaded to cover various cost components
in order to derive final commercial premium rates which are paid by growers. The general
formulae for developing the final premium rates include:




The study did not include a detailed analysis of the Kazakhstan insurance companies’ actual
administrative cost structures - acquisition costs, administrative cost, and insurers and
reinsurers profit margins expectations. For these reasons the current study, based on the
international experience in multiple period crop insurance products, assumes a target loss ratio of
60 percent which was estimated to adequate to cover all of the above expenses and reasonable
profit expectations. Therefore, the conversion of Technical Premium Rates into indicative
Commercial Premium Rates is given by the following formulae:




It is noted 60 percent is a reasonable target loss ratio for an MPCI cover. We understand that, if
the scheme reaches economies of scale, the administrative expenses could be substantially
reduced; thus, the target loss ratio could be increased. The illustrative Commercial Premium
Rates for Individual grower MPCI are shown by Oblast and by Rayon and by insured yield
coverage level from 10% to 50% of 5-year average yield in Table A4.2 for Commercial Farmers
and then in Table A4.3 for Agricultural Enterprises (Production Enterprises) and then finally in
the average Rayon-level rates for both types of farmer combined are shown in Table A4.4.




                                                 - 281 -
Table A4.2 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 60% and
Guaranteed Yields for individual grower MPCI for Spring Wheat produced by Commercial
Farmers in North Kazakhstan Region

                                                                         Coverage Level
                                      10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast           Rayon
                              Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                               Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                              (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
Akmola      Akkol              0.81      2.82%      1.61      7.89%      2.42     13.79%      3.22     19.95%      4.03     26.03%
Akmola      Arshaly            1.08      1.83%      2.15      5.69%      3.23     10.45%      4.31     15.65%      5.38     20.98%
Akmola      Astrashanski       0.61      3.68%      1.21      9.61%      1.82     16.22%      2.42     22.93%      3.03     29.40%
Akmola      Atbasarski         0.93      3.00%      1.86      8.34%      2.78     14.49%      3.71     20.87%      4.64     27.13%
Akmola      Bulandinski        1.08      2.19%      2.17      6.41%      3.25     11.48%      4.34     16.94%      5.42     22.45%
Akmola      Celinogradski      0.75      2.87%      1.49      8.02%      2.24     14.00%      2.99     20.23%      3.74     26.36%
Akmola      Enbekshilderski    1.07      2.25%      2.15      6.62%      3.22     11.82%      4.29     17.36%      5.37     22.91%
Akmola      Esilski            0.76      2.35%      1.52      6.96%      2.28     12.48%      3.05     18.38%      3.81     24.28%
Akmola      Korgalzhinski      0.47      2.49%      0.94      7.24%      1.41     12.88%      1.88     18.86%      2.35     24.81%
Akmola      Sandiktauski       1.05      2.24%      2.10      6.69%      3.15     12.05%      4.20     17.77%      5.24     23.52%
Akmola      Shortandinski      0.88      2.62%      1.77      7.42%      2.65     13.06%      3.54     19.00%      4.42     24.90%
Akmola      Shuchenski         1.15      1.59%      2.30      5.07%      3.46      9.44%      4.61     14.30%      5.76     19.34%
Akmola      Yegindikolski      0.60      2.83%      1.20      7.96%      1.80     13.94%      2.40     20.18%      3.00     26.32%
Akmola      Zerendinski        1.18      1.63%      2.36      5.27%      3.54      9.85%      4.73     14.90%      5.91     20.12%
Akmola      Zhaksi             1.15      2.18%      2.31      6.61%      3.46     11.98%      4.62     17.75%      5.77     23.57%
Akmola      Zharkainski        0.72      1.77%      1.45      5.61%      2.17     10.38%      2.89     15.62%      3.62     21.00%
Akmola      Erementauski       0.83      3.72%      1.66      9.64%      2.49     16.19%      3.32     22.82%      4.15     29.20%
EKO         Beskaragay         0.56      4.44%      1.13     11.08%      1.69     18.27%      2.25     25.43%      2.81     32.21%
EKO         Boroduliha         0.87      3.12%      1.73      8.53%      2.60     14.69%      3.46     21.04%      4.33     27.21%
EKO         Glubokoe           1.45      1.76%      2.91      5.50%      4.36     10.12%      5.82     15.18%      7.27     20.39%
EKO         Kokpekti           1.02      1.51%      2.04      4.86%      3.07      9.01%      4.09     13.55%      5.11     18.19%
EKO         Semey city         0.56      6.04%      1.12     13.70%      1.68     21.56%      2.23     29.15%      2.79     36.19%
EKO         Shemonaiha         1.44      1.91%      2.87      5.93%      4.31     10.86%      5.75     16.22%      7.19     21.68%
EKO         Ulan               0.88      2.28%      1.76      6.78%      2.65     12.15%      3.53     17.87%      4.41     23.58%
EKO         Urzhar             0.92      1.74%      1.84      5.53%      2.76     10.21%      3.69     15.27%      4.61     20.40%
EKO         Zyryan             1.47      1.39%      2.94      4.55%      4.41      8.56%      5.88     13.03%      7.35     17.69%
Karaganda   Buharzhirau        0.59      3.14%      1.18      8.55%      1.77     14.70%      2.36     21.05%      2.95     27.23%
Karaganda   Karkaraly          0.60      2.17%      1.19      6.41%      1.79     11.46%      2.39     16.84%      2.99     22.20%
Karaganda   Nura               0.44      2.11%      0.87      6.45%      1.31     11.71%      1.74     17.36%      2.18     23.06%
Karaganda   Osakarov           0.66      2.44%      1.33      7.11%      1.99     12.62%      2.66     18.44%      3.32     24.19%
Karaganda   Shetski            0.53      1.70%      1.05      5.47%      1.58     10.16%      2.11     15.29%      2.63     20.52%
Karaganda   Ulytau             0.58      1.79%      1.16      5.67%      1.74     10.47%      2.32     15.71%      2.90     21.08%
Karaganda   Zhanaarka          0.48      1.61%      0.95      5.24%      1.43      9.81%      1.90     14.84%      2.38     20.02%
Kostanay    Altynsarin         1.50      1.82%      2.99      5.76%      4.49     10.63%      5.98     15.96%      7.48     21.40%
Kostanay    Amangedi           0.77      1.76%      1.55      5.51%      2.32     10.14%      3.10     15.21%      3.87     20.40%
Kostanay    Arkalyk city       0.62      2.77%      1.23      7.89%      1.85     13.87%      2.47     20.12%      3.08     26.27%
Kostanay    Auliykolski        0.82      2.02%      1.65      6.18%      2.47     11.27%      3.30     16.79%      4.12     22.40%
Kostanay    Denisovski         1.20      3.03%      2.40      8.33%      3.61     14.44%      4.81     20.79%      6.01     27.02%
Kostanay    Fedorovski         1.62      1.30%      3.24      4.41%      4.86      8.43%      6.49     13.03%      8.11     17.93%
Kostanay    Kamisty            0.88      4.81%      1.76     11.28%      2.64     18.10%      3.53     24.84%      4.41     31.22%
Kostanay    Karabalyk          1.45      1.72%      2.90      5.52%      4.35     10.29%      5.80     15.55%      7.25     20.98%
Kostanay    Karasu             1.14      1.57%      2.28      5.12%      3.42      9.59%      4.56     14.56%      5.69     19.72%
Kostanay    Uzunkolski         1.69      1.54%      3.38      5.08%      5.06      9.55%      6.75     14.52%      8.44     19.69%
Kostanay    Zhetikara          0.85      2.85%      1.69      7.90%      2.54     13.77%      3.38     19.93%      4.23     26.01%
Kostanay    Kostanay           1.67      1.48%      3.34      4.86%      5.01      9.17%      6.68     13.99%      8.36     19.04%




                                                               - 282 -
                                                                       Coverage Level
                                    10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast          Rayon
                            Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                             Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                            (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
Kostanay   Mendikara         1.73      1.21%      3.46      4.12%      5.19      7.87%      6.92     12.13%      8.65     16.68%
Kostanay   Nauirzym          0.88      2.10%      1.76      6.34%      2.64     11.47%      3.52     17.00%      4.40     22.59%
Kostanay   Rudnyi city       0.46      3.53%      0.92      8.86%      1.38     14.74%      1.84     20.71%      2.30     26.50%
Kostanay   Sarykol           1.49      1.19%      2.99      4.02%      4.48      7.66%      5.97     11.79%      7.46     16.20%
Kostanay   Taranovski        1.20      2.42%      2.40      7.04%      3.60     12.55%      4.80     18.43%      6.01     24.33%
NKO        Airtau            1.55      1.43%      3.10      4.73%      4.64      8.93%      6.19     13.62%      7.74     18.52%
NKO        Akkayn            1.66      1.31%      3.32      4.35%      4.97      8.20%      6.63     12.50%      8.29     17.00%
NKO        Akzhar            1.37      1.08%      2.74      3.55%      4.11      6.66%      5.48     10.17%      6.84     13.95%
NKO        Esil              1.54      1.17%      3.09      3.95%      4.63      7.51%      6.18     11.55%      7.72     15.83%
NKO        G.Musrepov        1.48      1.43%      2.96      4.69%      4.45      8.82%      5.93     13.43%      7.41     18.27%
NKO        Kyzylzhar         1.71      0.98%      3.41      3.13%      5.12      5.58%      6.82      8.02%      8.53     10.26%
NKO        M.Zhumabayev      1.52      1.02%      3.05      3.36%      4.57      6.28%      6.09      9.57%      7.61     13.11%
NKO        Mamliut           1.60      1.23%      3.20      4.17%      4.79      7.91%      6.39     12.11%      7.99     16.51%
NKO        Shalakin          1.47      1.13%      2.95      3.80%      4.42      7.23%      5.89     11.14%      7.37     15.32%
NKO        Taiynsha          1.47      1.28%      2.94      4.28%      4.41      8.11%      5.89     12.42%      7.36     16.97%
NKO        Timiryazev        1.49      1.30%      2.98      4.40%      4.47      8.37%      5.96     12.86%      7.45     17.61%
NKO        Ualihanov         1.22      1.57%      2.45      4.99%      3.67      9.25%      4.89     13.95%      6.12     18.81%
NKO        Zhambil           1.63      1.24%      3.27      4.19%      4.90      7.97%      6.53     12.25%      8.16     16.77%
Pavlodar   Aktogaisky        0.58      2.90%      1.16      7.93%      1.73     13.66%      2.31     19.56%      2.89     25.28%
Pavlodar   Ekibastuz city    0.91      2.71%      1.82      7.39%      2.72     12.67%      3.63     18.02%      4.54     23.12%
Pavlodar   Irtyshski         0.70      2.09%      1.41      6.30%      2.11     11.36%      2.82     16.78%      3.52     22.23%
Pavlodar   Kashyrski         0.87      2.84%      1.75      7.89%      2.62     13.70%      3.50     19.72%      4.37     25.61%
Pavlodar   Shernaktinsky     0.75      2.93%      1.50      7.80%      2.24     13.31%      2.99     18.96%      3.74     24.42%
Pavlodar   Uspenka area      0.77      5.99%      1.54     13.24%      2.31     20.58%      3.08     27.61%      3.85     34.07%
Pavlodar   Zhelezninski      0.43      2.35%      0.87      6.90%      1.30     12.33%      1.73     18.09%      2.17     23.83%




                                                             - 283 -
Table A4.3 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 60% and
Guaranteed Yields for individual grower MPCI for Spring Wheat produced by
Agribusiness Enterprises in North Kazakhstan Region
                                                                         Coverage Level
                                      10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast           Rayon
                              Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                               Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                              (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
Akmola      Akkol              0.88      1.75%      1.77      5.58%      2.65     10.34%      3.54     15.57%      4.42     20.92%
Akmola      Arshaly            0.95      1.12%      1.91      3.65%      2.86      6.79%      3.82     10.30%      4.77     14.03%
Akmola      Astrashanski       0.76      1.31%      1.51      4.44%      2.27      8.46%      3.02     13.00%      3.78     17.78%
Akmola      Atbasarski         0.92      1.30%      1.84      4.40%      2.77      8.40%      3.69     12.93%      4.61     17.73%
Akmola      Bulandinski        1.04      1.23%      2.08      4.14%      3.12      7.89%      4.16     12.15%      5.20     16.70%
Akmola      Celinogradski      0.70      1.18%      1.40      4.02%      2.10      7.67%      2.79     11.83%      3.49     16.28%
Akmola      Enbekshilderski    1.21      1.58%      2.43      5.11%      3.64      9.52%      4.85     14.40%      6.07     19.45%
Akmola      Esilski            0.79      1.23%      1.59      4.17%      2.38      7.94%      3.18     12.22%      3.97     16.77%
Akmola      Korgalzhinski      0.58      1.19%      1.16      4.07%      1.74      7.77%      2.32     11.99%      2.90     16.49%
Akmola      Sandiktauski       1.20      1.06%      2.39      3.59%      3.59      6.82%      4.78     10.51%      5.98     14.50%
Akmola      Shortandinski      0.87      1.34%      1.75      4.48%      2.62      8.49%      3.49     13.00%      4.37     17.76%
Akmola      Shuchenski         1.12      1.11%      2.24      3.73%      3.36      7.08%      4.48     10.90%      5.59     15.02%
Akmola      Yegindikolski      0.72      1.31%      1.45      4.43%      2.17      8.46%      2.89     13.01%      3.61     17.83%
Akmola      Zerendinski        1.41      1.10%      2.82      3.71%      4.23      7.08%      5.64     10.91%      7.05     15.04%
Akmola      Zhaksi             1.18      1.18%      2.36      3.99%      3.54      7.62%      4.72     11.74%      5.90     16.14%
Akmola      Zharkainski        0.86      1.30%      1.72      4.42%      2.59      8.45%      3.45     13.01%      4.31     17.85%
Akmola      Erementauski       0.74      1.93%      1.49      5.95%      2.23     10.86%      2.97     16.18%      3.71     21.60%
EKO         Beskaragay         0.60      5.21%      1.20     12.01%      1.80     19.06%      2.40     25.90%      3.01     32.28%
EKO         Boroduliha         1.11      2.61%      2.22      6.91%      3.33     11.89%      4.44     17.14%      5.55     22.37%
EKO         Glubokoe           1.37      1.95%      2.75      5.67%      4.12     10.23%      5.49     15.23%      6.86     20.38%
EKO         Kokpekti           0.77      2.36%      1.54      6.25%      2.32     10.78%      3.09     15.60%      3.86     20.45%
EKO         Shemonaiha         1.58      1.77%      3.16      5.19%      4.74      9.39%      6.32     14.00%      7.89     18.78%
EKO         Ulan               1.18      7.15%      2.37     14.68%      3.55     22.10%      4.74     29.17%      5.92     35.71%
EKO         Zyryan             1.41      1.81%      2.83      5.22%      4.24      9.38%      5.65     13.95%      7.06     18.69%
Karaganda   Buharzhirau        0.83      1.18%      1.66      4.01%      2.49      7.66%      3.33     11.80%      4.16     16.21%
Karaganda   Nura               0.85      1.37%      1.70      4.60%      2.55      8.73%      3.39     13.37%      4.24     18.24%
Karaganda   Osakarov           0.79      1.27%      1.58      4.24%      2.37      8.00%      3.16     12.23%      3.94     16.68%
Karaganda   Ulytau             0.62      1.54%      1.23      5.07%      1.85      9.53%      2.47     14.48%      3.08     19.62%
Kostanay    Altynsarin         1.33      1.28%      2.67      4.34%      4.00      8.27%      5.33     12.73%      6.67     17.44%
Kostanay    Amangedi           0.72      1.41%      1.45      4.72%      2.17      8.95%      2.89     13.70%      3.61     18.68%
Kostanay    Arkalyk city       0.92      1.30%      1.83      4.39%      2.75      8.37%      3.66     12.87%      4.58     17.63%
Kostanay    Auliykolski        0.99      1.48%      1.98      4.90%      2.97      9.24%      3.97     14.06%      4.96     19.08%
Kostanay    Denisovski         1.19      1.36%      2.39      4.56%      3.58      8.67%      4.78     13.30%      5.97     18.17%
Kostanay    Fedorovski         1.64      1.14%      3.29      3.86%      4.93      7.37%      6.57     11.38%      8.21     15.68%
Kostanay    Kamisty            0.92      1.32%      1.84      4.45%      2.75      8.43%      3.67     12.89%      4.59     17.54%
Kostanay    Karabalyk          1.47      1.15%      2.94      3.92%      4.41      7.49%      5.89     11.57%      7.36     15.95%
Kostanay    Karasu             1.08      1.35%      2.16      4.49%      3.24      8.49%      4.32     12.98%      5.40     17.69%
Kostanay    Uzunkolski         1.40      1.06%      2.80      3.58%      4.20      6.80%      5.59     10.48%      6.99     14.44%
Kostanay    Zhetikara          0.84      1.33%      1.68      4.48%      2.52      8.51%      3.36     13.02%      4.20     17.73%
Kostanay    Kostanay           1.27      1.25%      2.54      4.21%      3.82      8.03%      5.09     12.35%      6.36     16.93%
Kostanay    Mendikara          1.40      1.09%      2.81      3.69%      4.21      7.05%      5.62     10.89%      7.02     15.03%
Kostanay    Nauirzym           0.68      1.46%      1.36      4.87%      2.04      9.22%      2.71     14.07%      3.39     19.14%
Kostanay    Sarykol            1.46      1.15%      2.92      3.90%      4.38      7.42%      5.84     11.41%      7.31     15.68%
Kostanay    Taranovski         1.13      1.29%      2.25      4.35%      3.38      8.28%      4.51     12.73%      5.64     17.44%
NKO         Airtau             1.32      0.98%      2.63      3.28%      3.95      6.16%      5.26      9.43%      6.58     13.00%
NKO         Akkayn             1.44      0.95%      2.89      3.14%      4.33      5.84%      5.78      8.89%      7.22     12.21%




                                                               - 284 -
                                                                       Coverage Level
                                    10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast          Rayon
                            Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                             Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                            (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
NKO        Akzhar            1.10      1.01%      2.20      3.34%      3.30      6.23%      4.40      9.49%      5.50     13.01%
NKO        Esil              1.38      0.98%      2.75      3.27%      4.13      6.17%      5.50      9.50%      6.88     13.16%
NKO        G.Musrepov        1.32      1.07%      2.63      3.57%      3.95      6.74%      5.27     10.33%      6.58     14.20%
NKO        Kyzylzhar         1.43      0.93%      2.86      3.03%      4.29      5.57%      5.72      8.38%      7.15     11.42%
NKO        M.Zhumabayev      1.37      0.94%      2.73      3.07%      4.10      5.68%      5.46      8.58%      6.83     11.72%
NKO        Mamliut           1.37      0.98%      2.74      3.27%      4.11      6.13%      5.48      9.37%      6.84     12.89%
NKO        Shalakin          1.29      1.09%      2.58      3.69%      3.87      7.03%      5.16     10.85%      6.46     14.96%
NKO        Taiynsha          1.33      1.00%      2.65      3.31%      3.98      6.20%      5.31      9.46%      6.63     12.99%
NKO        Timiryazev        1.24      1.04%      2.47      3.53%      3.71      6.71%      4.94     10.34%      6.18     14.26%
NKO        Ualihanov         1.13      1.13%      2.27      3.75%      3.40      7.04%      4.54     10.77%      5.67     14.75%
NKO        Zhambil           1.16      1.07%      2.31      3.62%      3.47      6.89%      4.62     10.64%      5.78     14.68%
Pavlodar   Ekibastuz city    0.52      1.50%      1.05      4.68%      1.57      8.49%      2.09     12.50%      2.62     16.43%
Pavlodar   Irtyshski         0.67      1.18%      1.35      3.97%      2.02      7.54%      2.69     11.57%      3.37     15.82%
Pavlodar   Kashyrski         0.82      1.68%      1.63      5.49%      2.45     10.30%      3.26     15.64%      4.08     21.16%
Pavlodar   Shernaktinsky     0.76      1.93%      1.51      5.69%      2.27     10.04%      3.02     14.54%      3.78     18.86%
Pavlodar   Uspenka area      0.67      1.71%      1.35      5.18%      2.02      9.27%      2.69     13.53%      3.37     17.68%
Pavlodar   Zhelezninski      0.90      1.50%      1.80      4.98%      2.70      9.45%      3.60     14.49%      4.49     19.78%




                                                             - 285 -
Table A4.4 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 60% and
Guaranteed Yields for individual grower MPCI for Spring Wheat produced by Combined
Commercial Farmers and Agribusiness Enterprises in North Kazakhstan Region
                                                                         Coverage Level
                                      10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast           Rayon
                              Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                               Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                              (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
Akmola      Akkol                 0.87     1.98%       1.73     6.09%       2.60    11.10%       3.46    16.53%       4.33    22.05%
Akmola      Arshaly               0.99     1.36%       1.98     4.33%       2.97     8.01%       3.97    12.09%       4.96    16.36%
Akmola      Astrashanski          0.70     2.10%       1.40     6.17%       2.09    11.05%       2.79    16.32%       3.49    21.66%
Akmola      Atbasarski            0.92     1.54%       1.85     4.96%       2.77     9.27%       3.69    14.07%       4.61    19.08%
Akmola      Bulandinski           1.04     1.33%       2.09     4.39%       3.13     8.29%       4.18    12.68%       5.22    17.33%
Akmola      Celinogradski         0.71     1.45%       1.41     4.66%       2.12     8.68%       2.82    13.17%       3.53    17.89%
Akmola      Enbekshilderski       1.19     1.69%       2.38     5.35%       3.56     9.90%       4.75    14.88%       5.94    20.02%
Akmola      Esilski               0.79     1.47%       1.57     4.77%       2.36     8.92%       3.15    13.55%       3.93    18.39%
Akmola      Korgalzhinski         0.56     1.39%       1.12     4.54%       1.68     8.54%       2.24    13.02%       2.80    17.74%
Akmola      Sandiktauski          1.17     1.23%       2.34     4.04%       3.52     7.58%       4.69    11.56%       5.86    15.81%
Akmola      Shortandinski         0.87     1.43%       1.75     4.69%       2.62     8.81%       3.50    13.43%       4.37    18.26%
Akmola      Shuchenski            1.12     1.17%       2.25     3.91%       3.37     7.40%       4.49    11.37%       5.62    15.61%
Akmola      Yegindikolski         0.68     1.80%       1.36     5.58%       2.03    10.24%       2.71    15.35%       3.39    20.59%
Akmola      Zerendinski           1.36     1.20%       2.72     4.02%       4.08     7.61%       5.43    11.69%       6.79    16.03%
Akmola      Zhaksi                1.17     1.83%       2.34     5.63%       3.50    10.29%       4.67    15.36%       5.84    20.55%
Akmola      Zharkainski           0.81     1.47%       1.62     4.84%       2.42     9.13%       3.23    13.94%       4.04    18.96%
Akmola      Erementauski          0.77     2.43%       1.53     6.98%       2.30    12.35%       3.06    18.04%       3.83    23.72%
EKO         Beskaragay            0.58     4.80%       1.16    11.51%       1.74    18.63%       2.32    25.65%       2.90    32.24%
EKO         Boroduliha            0.96     2.90%       1.91     7.83%       2.87    13.49%       3.82    19.36%       4.78    25.13%
EKO         Glubokoe              1.42     1.84%       2.83     5.57%       4.25    10.17%       5.66    15.20%       7.08    20.39%
EKO         Kokpekti              0.90     1.88%       1.79     5.46%       2.69     9.78%       3.58    14.44%       4.48    19.17%
EKO         Semey city            0.56     6.04%       1.12    13.70%       1.68    21.56%       2.23    29.15%       2.79    36.19%
EKO         Shemonaiha            1.52     1.82%       3.05     5.46%       4.57     9.92%       6.10    14.80%       7.62    19.83%
EKO         Ulan                  0.98     4.19%       1.96     9.87%       2.94    16.05%       3.92    22.29%       4.90    28.33%
EKO         Urzhar                0.92     1.74%       1.84     5.53%       2.76    10.21%       3.69    15.27%       4.61    20.40%
EKO         Zyryan                1.43     1.67%       2.86     5.00%       4.29     9.11%       5.72    13.64%       7.16    18.36%
Karaganda   Buharzhirau           0.70     2.11%       1.39     6.16%       2.09    11.00%       2.79    16.19%       3.48    21.44%
Karaganda   Karkaraly             0.60     2.17%       1.19     6.41%       1.79    11.46%       2.39    16.84%       2.99    22.20%
Karaganda   Nura                  0.72     1.51%       1.43     4.95%       2.15     9.30%       2.87    14.14%       3.59    19.17%
Karaganda   Osakarov              0.72     1.89%       1.44     5.75%       2.15    10.44%       2.87    15.50%       3.59    20.64%
Karaganda   Shetski               0.53     1.70%       1.05     5.47%       1.58    10.16%       2.11    15.29%       2.63    20.52%
Karaganda   Ulytau                0.60     1.68%       1.19     5.40%       1.79    10.04%       2.39    15.15%       2.98    20.41%
Karaganda   Zhanaarka             0.48     1.61%       0.95     5.24%       1.43     9.81%       1.90    14.84%       2.38    20.02%
Kostanay    Altynsarin            1.37     1.41%       2.74     4.68%       4.11     8.84%       5.48    13.50%       6.84    18.39%
Kostanay    Amangedi              0.75     1.61%       1.50     5.19%       2.26     9.66%       3.01    14.59%       3.76    19.69%
Kostanay    Arkalyk city          0.80     1.73%       1.60     5.43%       2.40    10.00%       3.20    15.02%       4.00    20.19%
Kostanay    Auliykolski           0.95     1.61%       1.89     5.20%       2.84     9.71%       3.79    14.70%       4.73    19.85%
Kostanay    Denisovski            1.20     1.63%       2.39     5.18%       3.59     9.62%       4.78    14.53%       5.98    19.62%
Kostanay    Fedorovski            1.63     1.21%       3.27     4.10%       4.90     7.84%       6.53    12.10%       8.17    16.66%
Kostanay    Kamisty               0.91     1.93%       1.82     5.64%       2.73    10.12%       3.64    14.97%       4.56    19.92%
Kostanay    Karabalyk             1.47     1.27%       2.93     4.26%       4.40     8.08%       5.87    12.41%       7.33    17.01%
Kostanay    Karasu                1.10     1.42%       2.20     4.69%       3.30     8.85%       4.39    13.49%       5.49    18.35%
Kostanay    Uzunkolski            1.47     1.19%       2.93     3.98%       4.40     7.54%       5.87    11.57%       7.33    15.85%
Kostanay    Zhetikara             0.84     1.58%       1.68     5.04%       2.52     9.36%       3.36    14.14%       4.20    19.08%
Kostanay    Kostanay              1.49     1.39%       2.97     4.61%       4.46     8.71%       5.94    13.34%       7.43    18.20%
Kostanay    Mendikara             1.52     1.14%       3.04     3.86%       4.56     7.38%       6.08    11.39%       7.60    15.70%




                                                               - 286 -
                                                                       Coverage Level
                                    10%                  20%                  30%                  40%                 50 %
  Oblast          Rayon
                            Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.
                             Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate
                            (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)   (ctr/he)   (% TSI)
Kostanay   Nauirzym             0.79     1.87%       1.59     5.80%       2.38    10.64%       3.18    15.93%       3.97    21.32%
Kostanay   Rudnyi city          0.46     3.53%       0.92     8.86%       1.38    14.74%       1.84    20.71%       2.30    26.50%
Kostanay   Sarykol              1.47     1.17%       2.95     3.94%       4.42     7.50%       5.89    11.55%       7.36    15.87%
Kostanay   Taranovski           1.15     1.68%       2.30     5.27%       3.46     9.76%       4.61    14.70%       5.76    19.82%
NKO        Airtau               1.36     1.07%       2.71     3.57%       4.07     6.72%       5.43    10.28%       6.78    14.11%
NKO        Akkayn               1.49     1.04%       2.99     3.45%       4.48     6.45%       5.98     9.83%       7.47    13.45%
NKO        Akzhar               1.19     1.04%       2.38     3.42%       3.57     6.40%       4.77     9.76%       5.96    13.38%
NKO        Esil                 1.40     1.01%       2.80     3.38%       4.20     6.38%       5.60     9.82%       7.00    13.58%
NKO        G.Musrepov           1.34     1.14%       2.69     3.78%       4.03     7.13%       5.38    10.91%       6.72    14.95%
NKO        Kyzylzhar            1.51     0.95%       3.01     3.06%       4.52     5.57%       6.02     8.27%       7.53    11.06%
NKO        M.Zhumabayev         1.42     0.97%       2.85     3.19%       4.27     5.92%       5.70     8.98%       7.12    12.28%
NKO        Mamliut              1.42     1.05%       2.85     3.51%       4.27     6.60%       5.69    10.10%       7.12    13.85%
NKO        Shalakin             1.33     1.10%       2.66     3.72%       4.00     7.08%       5.33    10.92%       6.66    15.05%
NKO        Taiynsha             1.35     1.05%       2.70     3.49%       4.05     6.55%       5.41    10.00%       6.76    13.72%
NKO        Timiryazev           1.35     1.17%       2.70     3.96%       4.05     7.54%       5.40    11.60%       6.75    15.94%
NKO        Ualihanov            1.15     1.20%       2.30     3.94%       3.44     7.38%       4.59    11.25%       5.74    15.37%
NKO        Zhambil              1.32     1.14%       2.63     3.85%       3.95     7.34%       5.26    11.31%       6.58    15.55%
Pavlodar   Aktogaisky           0.58     2.90%       1.16     7.93%       1.73    13.66%       2.31    19.56%       2.89    25.28%
Pavlodar   Ekibastuz city       0.74     2.32%       1.47     6.54%       2.21    11.35%       2.95    16.28%       3.68    21.01%
Pavlodar   Irtyshski            0.69     1.75%       1.38     5.43%       2.08     9.94%       2.77    14.84%       3.46    19.84%
Pavlodar   Kashyrski            0.85     2.45%       1.71     7.08%       2.56    12.55%       3.41    18.35%       4.27    24.11%
Pavlodar   Shernaktinsky        0.75     2.13%       1.51     6.11%       2.26    10.70%       3.02    15.43%       3.77    19.99%
Pavlodar   Uspenka area         0.72     3.69%       1.43     8.92%       2.15    14.52%       2.86    20.06%       3.58    25.28%
Pavlodar   Zhelezninski         0.61     1.86%       1.23     5.81%       1.84    10.69%       2.46    16.04%       3.07    21.53%




                                                             - 287 -
- 288 -
    Annex 5: International Experience with Crop Insurance Pools


This Annex provides information on the Spanish and Turkish Agricultural Insurance Pool
Programs which are examples of national Public-Private Partnerships where the insurance
industry has voluntarily elected to form a specialist agricultural co-insurance pool company rather
than to underwrite agricultural insurance on an individual company basis. The structure of these
two programs and the roles played by goveremnt may be of interest to key stakeholders in
Kazakhstan who are currently studying future institutional options for the compulsory crop
insurance program.


Spain: The Combined Agrarian Insurance Program (Seguro Agrario
Combinado)
The agricultural insurance system in Spain is structured around an established public-private
partnership, PPP, known as AGROSEGURO (Agrupación Española de Entidades Aseguradores
de los Seguros Agrarios Combinados), formed in 1980 to provide farmers with insurance for
crop, livestock, aquaculture, and most recently, forestry.

The organizational structure of the Agroseguro program is shown in Figure A5.1. There are
three main groups involved in the implementation of this national agricultural insurance program:
(1) government including the Autonomous State Governments, the Ministries of Agriculture and
Finance and ENESA, the National Agricultural Insurance Agency; (2) the insurance and
reinsurance sectors, comprised of the Pool Coinsurers and Agroseguro, the managing agricultural
underwriter company owned by the pool coinsurers, Consorcio de Compensacion, the national
catastrophe reinsurer and international reinsurers and (3) the producer associations and individual
farmers located throughout Spain and its territories.
Figure A5.1. Organisational Structure of the Spanish Agricultural Insurance Program




Source: ENESA 2007



                                              - 289 -
Key Parties Involved Are
    Administrator: ENESA (The National Agricultural Insurance Agency or La Entidad
     Estatal de Seguros Agrarios) coordinates the system and manages resources for
     subsidizing insurance premiums.
      Pool Co-insurers: In 2010, 28 private and mutual Spanish and international insurance
       companies and the state catastrophe reinsurer, the Consorcio de Compensacion de
       Seguros, CCS participated in the Agricultural Insurance Pool on a voluntary basis.
       Mapfre Insurance Company and CCS are the largest shareholders in the Pool while some
       companies maintain shares of less than 1 percent. The co-insurance pool clearly
       illustrates the principle of a large number of companies pooling risks and each company
       bearing a small share of risk.
      Managing Underwriter: AGROSEGURO, which is owned by the 36 shareholders/co-
       insurers has been appointed by the co-insurers to underwrite, adjust, and settle claims on
       their collective behalves. The key functions of the Pool Coinsurers include: (i) to provide
       their financial capacity to underwrite the scheme and (ii) to promote and market the
       AGROSEGURO standard agricultural insurance policies through their networks of sales
       agents for which they receive an agreed commission.
      International Commercial Reinsurers: Providers of (i) stop loss reinsurance to pool
       reinsurers on their viable line retentions and (ii) multi-year catastrophe stop loss to CCS.
The public sector entities are ENESA, which coordinates the system and manages resources
for subsidizing insurance premiums; and CCS, which, together with private reinsurers, provides
reinsurance for the agricultural insurance market. Local governments are involved only to the
extent that they are allowed to augment premium subsidies offered at the national level. On the
private side, insurance contracts are sold by AGROSEGURO. Farmers, insurers, and institutional
representatives are all part of a general commission hosted by ENESA that functions as the
managing board of the Spanish agricultural insurance system.

Forms of Government Support to Agricultural Insurance

The Spanish Federal and Regional autonomous governments support the AGROSEGURO
program in a number of ways including:
      Insurance Legislation.
      Product design and rating (data and information provision, statistical studies and actuarial
       research)
      Subsidies on Agriculture Insurance Premiums Paid by Farmers/Herders.
      Co-insurance and Reinsurance through the Insurance Compensation Consortium or
       Consorcio de Compensación de Seguro (CCS).
In 2010 the premium subsidies on Agroseguro amounted to US$ 539 million (€ 406) million or
62% of the total earned premiums of US$ 864 million (€ 650 million) in 2010.
In Spain, government’s rationale for subsidizing agricultural insurance is that it wishes to
encourage all farmers to buy insurance against natural and climatic calamities and to replace
free ad hoc government disaster relief mechanisms by a much more rigorous ex-ante
agricultural insurance program. To reinforce the point, Spanish producers are not eligible for



                                             - 290 -
disaster payments for perils for which insurance is offered. For non-covered perils, ad hoc
disaster payments are available, but only if the producer has already purchased agricultural
insurance for covered perils.


AGROSEGURO

In 2010 AGROSEGURO employed a full-time professional staff of 255 comprising
management, technicians, administrators and clerical support staff. AGROSEGURO maintains its
own network of 348 trained and specialized crop loss adjusters located throughout Spain. In
addition, the company retains a network of 121 livestock loss adjusters. Its operating costs in
2010 amounted to about US$ 31 million or 3.55% of total earned premium.
Agroseguro acts as the specialist insurance company or managing underwriter acting on
behalf of the28 pool coinsurers. The company is responsible for the design and rating of
agricultural insurance products in conjunction with ENESA throughout Spain, and for then
issuing standard policies to the Pool Insurers who then market these standard policies on their
own paper. Agricultural insurance is voluntary is Spain. AGROSEGURO cannot reject any
application for insurance by a farmer on the grounds of the risk exposure: however, if a farmer
does not adopt the recommended husbandry or production practices for that crop or livestock
commodity the company many refuse the risk on these grounds. Agroseguro is responsible for
underwriting the scheme and for adjusting claims on behalf of the Pool Coinsurers. The
operational procedures are outlined in Figure A5.2.
Figure A5.2. Agroseguro Operating Systems and Procedures

                            EXPERIENCIA DE ESPAÑA EN EL DESARROLLO DE LOS
                            SEGUROS AGRICOLAS

                   Agroseguro Spain: Operating Procedures Flow Chart

                                                         Payment of Premium
                                                                                                       (Managing Underwriter)
                                                                                                          AGROSEGURO
                                                                                      Pool Insurance
                                                           Intermediaries
                             Policy holders




                                                                                       Companies
         Farmers




                                              Policies




                                                         Communication of Losses


                        Loss Assessment and Payment of Claims




Source: ENESA 2007
Agroseguro underwrites a large and diversified crop and livestock portfolio and also insures
aquaculture and forestry. Crop Insurance includes individual grower multiple-peril crop
insurance MPCI. However, only a very small fraction of Agroseguro‘s overall liability is MPCI



                                                                            - 291 -
and the company underwrites crop hail and named peril policies, as well as a large livestock
portfolio, neither of which accumulate with the MPCI drought and flood policies. Policies are
available for crops, livestock, and aquaculture activities, with these risks being pooled across the
country by AGROSEGURO. Unlike the United States and Canada, farmer associations are more
actively involved in implementation and development of agricultural insurance. Government has
reserves to cover extreme losses, and as a final resort, the government treasury is used to cover
losses that may occur beyond these reserves.
After more than 30 years operations, Agroseguro is today a very large mature agricultural
insurance program underwriting practically every class of crop and livestock business
throughout Spain. Total premiums for agriculture insurance policies purchased reached US$900
million (€678 million) in 2008 before falling back slightly to US$ 864 million (€ 651 million) in
2010. In 2010 the Total sum Insured of the program amounted to US$ 14.7 billion (€11.1 billion)
Direct premium subsidies (from both the central government and the autonomous regions) were
equal to 57% percent to the total premium volume in 2010, with farmers paying the remaining
38% of commercial premiums.
In 2010 AGROSEGURO underwrote about 485,000 crop and livestock insurance policies with
an earned premium volume of US$ 864 million (€651 million). In 2010, AGROSEGURO
adjusted losses on and compensated a total of 1,108,177 claims divided into: 94,717 crop
insurance claims, 124,460 livestock insurance claims and 889,000 claims relating to individual
animal carcass removal and destruction. In 2010 the total cost of claims amounted to US$ 736
million (€554 million) equivalent to a loss ratio of 85%.101
Viable lines include the less volatile and lower-risk crop programs, which are insured by the
pool of 28 coinsurers. Experimental lines are insured directly by CCS and include the more
volatile crops and peril combinations, including the systemic perils of drought and flood, which
can lead to catastrophe losses. Drought is only offered as an experimental cover for selected crops
and programs (e.g., the Integral Winter Cereal Program; and yield shortfall policies for wine
grapes); flood has been only included as an insured peril since 1999. In order to minimize anti-
selection, flood is a compulsory peril on all crop insurance lines; Drought and flood are only
offered on experimental lines and are reinsured by CCS.
In 2010 AGROSEGURO underwrote about 200 viable and experimental crops, livestock, and
marine aquaculture lines, and forestry insurance covering a wide range of crop types including
cereals, oilseeds, horticultural crops, leaf and fibers, tree fruits and vines, and livestock types. The
company offers comprehensive range of single-peril hail, named-peril, and multi-peril crop
insurance policies and a remote sensing pasture-grazing NDVI index cover.
AGROSEGURO Reinsurance
CCS the national catastrophe reinsurer provides commercially priced stop loss reinsurance
protection to Agroseguro on the Viable Lines and the Experimental Lines. The viable lines
stop loss reinsurance protection provides layered reinsurance cover and the pool insurers are
required to retain (coinsure) between 5% and 10% of the losses on these layers. However, the
law then permits pool coinsurers to protect their stop loss retentions by purchasing reinsurance
from international reinsurers. In addition, CCS has traditionally purchased a multi-year
catastrophe reinsurance protection on its retention. This is a multi-year stop loss retrocession
treaty placed with international reinsurers that in the 2000‘s reinsured CCS losses of 40 percent in
excess of 145 percent of GNPI on the Agroseguro program. (It is not known whether CCS
currently purchases this stop loss retrocession protection in 2011). The relationships between
Agroseguro, and Consorcio and international reinsurers are illustrated in Figure A5.3.

101
      Agroseguro 2010 Annual Report. www.agroseguro.es


                                                - 292 -
Figure A5.3. Agroseguro: Financial Flows and Reinsurance Structure

                       EXPERIENCIA DE ESPAÑA EN EL DESARROLLO DE LOS
                       SEGUROS AGRICOLAS
                                 Flujos económicos


     Regional                                                         International
     Goverments                                                       Reinsurers
                                         National Reinsurer
                                             (Consorcio de
                                        Compensación de Seguros)

                    ENESA




      Farmers               Payment of Premium                AGROSEGURO.



                                    Payment of Claims




Source: ENESA 2007



Turkey: The TARSIM Agricultural Insurance Pool
History of Agricultural Insurance

Turkey has a lengthy history of agricultural crop insurance daring back to 1957 while livestock
insurance was introduced in 1960. Until 2006 the agricultural crop and livestock insurance in
Turkey was underwritten by 15 private commercial insurance companies that competed against
each other to underwrite a series of products, including, most notably, crop hail (plus pilot frost),
livestock, poultry, and greenhouse insurance. In 2005, the market leaders were Guven and Basak
with 37% and 34% shares, respectively, of total agricultural insurance market premiums of
Turkish Lira 49 million (USD 36 million). During this period, a market tariff system was applied
by international reinsurers and with the agreement of local insurers in the crop hail business; each
company placed its own reinsurances with the national reinsurer (Milli Re) and/or international
reinsurers on a proportional and/or non-proportional basis. At this time there was no government
financial or other support to agricultural insurance in Turkey.

In 2005, with the agreement of government and the private commercial insurers, legislation
was enacted under the Agricultural Insurance Law No 5363, dated June 14, 2005, to create an
Agricultural Insurance Pool under the administration of a new managing underwriter,
TARSIM, and to define the role and functions of federal government support in the form of
financial subsidies and excess of loss reinsurance protection.




                                                        - 293 -
Figure A5.4. shows the institutional structure for the TARSIM Pool. It is a public-private
partnership involving the government, the private insurance companies, and supporting
organizations (insurance association, Ministry of Agriculture, etc). A management committee
comprised of representation from each of these organizations is responsible for policy decisions
regarding the operations of the Pool, for determination of crops, risks, and regions to be
supported, and for determination of subsidy levels.

The TARSIM Agricultural Insurance Pool functions as a conventional coinsurance pool, and
its shareholders and coinsurers today include 22 insurance companies licensed to transact
agricultural Insurance102. The coinsurers issue TARSIM‘s approved and standard insurance
contracts (policies) on their own paper; the companies receive an agreed commission for bringing
business to the Pool, and all risks and premium are 100% ceded to the Insurance Pool. TARSIM
is responsible for product design and setting standard rates, for premium collection, for loss
assessment and claims settlement, and for reinsurance arrangements.

Figure A5.4: TARSIM Pool Public-Private Partnership for Agricultural Insurance in Turkey


                Turkey Public Private Partnership for Agricultural Insurance


                                                                                      Organizations Insurance
                   Government                    Private Sector                            and Agriculture




          Ministry of                                                         Association of the     Union of the Turkish
                              Undersecretariat    Insurance                    Insurance and
        Agriculture and                                                                                  Chamber of
                               of the Treasury    Companies                     Reinsurance
         Rural Affairs                                                                                   Agriculture
                                                                             Companies of Turkey



                                                   Agricultural
                                                 Insurance Pool

                                                    TARSIM


                                                 TSV (field loss
                                                  assessment
                                                    services)

      Source: TARSIM (2006)




Agricultural Insurance Products Available

TARSIM offers a wide range of specialist agricultural crop, livestock and greenhouse and
aquaculture insurance products. The company does not, however, underwrite Multi-Peril Crop
Insurance (MPCI) covers. Rather, it offers a named-peril hail policy plus additional perils for all
crops. For fruit and vegetables and ornamentals additional cover may be purchased against frost
damage. The company also underwrites a material damage policy for loss of greenhouse
structures and the crops grown under cover. The company insures dairy cattle against a wide
range of perils including diseases, but excluding notifiable diseases, and a similar comprehensive
cover is offered for poultry. The company also underwrites a marine aquaculture policy against a
wide range of perils including pollution, diseases, and algae bloom.


102
      Bora, B. 2010 Subsidised agricultural insurance in Turkey. B. Bora, General Manager of Tarsim Turkey


                                                                   - 294 -
Delivery Channels

The main delivery channel for agricultural insurance services is the insurance agents’ network
(for both crop and livestock). Financial institutions and input suppliers are the second important
delivery channel for crop insurance. Another significant delivery channel for both crop and
livestock insurance is producers‘ associations and cooperatives. Insurance brokers are marginal.
There are no specific institutions for delivering agricultural insurance to small and marginal
farmers in Turkey.

Voluntary vs. Compulsory Insurance

Agricultural insurance is voluntary for all farmers.

Agricultural Reinsurance

TARSIM is responsible for deciding on its risk retention and reinsurance strategy . The
company is permitted to retrocede business back to the insurers and/or to reinsure through
MilliRe and international reinsurers. It is also understood that, in cases where sufficient
reinsurance capacity is not available through commercial reinsurers, government may accept to
share in the risk financing.103

Types of Public Support for Agricultural Insurance in Turkey

Public support to agricultural insurance is important in Turkey. The government provides a
wide range of support under the new TARSIM Pool arrangement including:

               Agricultural insurance legislation enacted in 2005 to create the national Pool Scheme
                and to define the roles of public and private sectors;
               Agricultural insurance premium subsidies, which are fixed at 50% of the premium
                cost for both crops and livestock and which are paid by government directly to the
                Pool (TARSIM);
               Subsidies on TARSIM‘s administration and operating expenses and on loss
                adjustment expenses;
               Government support to the reinsurance program; and
               Agricultural insurance premiums sales tax exemptions.

The costs of government premium subsidies and other forms of financial support to the Program
are detailed in Table A5.1 for 2007, which was the first full year of operation of the new
TARSIM Pool agricultural insurance scheme.

Table A5.1.: TARSIM Subsidies Paid by Federal Government, 2007



                                                                A&O
                                           Premium           Expenses           LAE
                                           Subsidies         Subsidies      Subsidies         Total
        Percent of             Crop            50%                 6%             5%           61%
         Premium           Livestock           50%                 6%             5%           61%

103
      Bora 2005, Public-Private Partnerships for Risk Management in Agriculture: Turkish Experience.


                                                   - 295 -
                            Crop              20.0                    2.4            2.0   24.4
        Amount         Livestock               6.1                    0.7            0.6    7.4
      (USD mil)            Total              26.1                    3.1            2.6   31.8
Source: World Bank Survey (2008).
Tarsim's results for the period 2007 to 2009 are summarized in Table A5.2.

Table A5.2. Tarsim’s results

 Item                                      2007               2008           2009
 No of Policies                         113,413          134,881        158,661
 Premium Income (in TRY 000)             33,147              50,885         66,244
 Sum Insured (In TRY 000)               764,340         1,150,088      1,500,169
 No. of Insured Cattle                   28,703              37,193         58,028
 Insured area (Dunams)*                1,804,304        2,293,434      2,938,557
 Number of Risk Inspections and
 loss notifications                      31,083              44,048         57,265
 Source: Bora 2010
 * 1 dunam = 0.1 Hectares
 TRY 1.00 = Euro 0.464 at 31/12/2009




                                                   - 296 -
       Annex 6: Named Peril Crop Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan
This Annex presents further information on the key features of named -peril damage
based crop insurance and indemnity products . This section is based on Iturrioz
2009 104.
Named peril (damage based) as the name suggests provides indemnity against those adverse
events that are explicitly listed in the policy. This subclass has a number of distinctive features:
       -    The sum insured is agreed at the inception of the contract and may be based on
            production costs, or on the expected crop revenue;
       -    The loss is determined as a percentage of the damage incurred by the insured party as
            established by a loss adjuster as soon after the damage occurs;
       -    The indemnity is calculated as the product of the percentage of the damage and the sum
            insured;
       -    Deductibles105 and franchises106 are normally applied to reduce the incidence of false
            claims and to encourage improvements in risk management.
An example of indemnity under a named peril contract is illustrated in figure A6.1 below.
      Figure A6.1: Example of Indemnity of a named peril insurance contract
                  Insured Unit             Insurance contract Conditions:
                                           Insured Peril: Hail
                                           Sum Insured: US$ 10,000
                                           Indemnity Limit: Full Value
                                           Deductible:
           Damage = 0%
                                           Option A) 5% of the total sum insured
                                           Option B) 10% of the loss

                                           Loss Adjustment:
                                           - 50% of the insured unit with 0% damage.
                                           - 50% of the insured unit with 40% damage.
                                             Consequently,
                                             Total Damage = 50%*0% +%50*40% = 20%
                            Damage = 40%

                                           Indemnity Calculation:
                                           Indemnity = Damage (%) * Total Sum Insured – Deductible
                                           Option A) 20% * US$ 10,000 – US$ 10,000*5% =        US$ 1,500
                                           Option B) 20% * US$ 10,000 – US$ 10,000*20%*10% = US$ 1,800

      Source: Iturrioz, R (2009)


Named peril is a popular type of insurance and accounts for a significant portion of the
agricultural premium worldwide. From the perspective of the insured parties it appeals where
firms are located in areas frequently subjected to one of the perils covered; from the insurer‘s
point of view it is suitable to situations where the damages caused by the named perils are both
measurable and have sudden impact.

104
    Iturrioz R, 2009: Agricultural Insurance: A Primer. The World Bank, Washington DC.
105
    A deductible is an amount or a percentage of the loss that is deducted from the indemnity and represents
the first portion of the claim that the insured bears. The purpose of a deductible is to reduce moral hazard
by encouraging the insured to prevent losses. Deductibles can be either a percentage of the sum insured or
a percentage of the loss and can be applied to each and every loss or to the total losses over a specified
period, normally the currency of the contract.
106
    A franchise is a loss threshold that the insured has to reach in order to be able to receive the indemnity.
Once the threshold is reached the amount of any subsequent loss is paid in full. The purpose of a franchise
is to reduce claim frequency.


                                                    - 297 -
Named peril agricultural insurance products account for a considerable proportion of
agricultural insurance worldwide. Named peril insurance contracts are used extensively to
protect against hail damage and are used in horticulture and floriculture in addition to crops and
fruit but are also used in livestock, bloodstock aquaculture, forestry and greenhouses insurance.

Hail Risk modeling for hail insurance in Kazakhstan.
This section presents the basic design features of the hail crop risk assessment model for spring
wheat production in 7 selected rayons (including Altynsarinski and Auliyekolski Rayons in
Kostanay Oblast; Aktogaiski and Zhelezinski Rayons in Pavlodar Oblast; Bulandinski and
Enbekshilderski Rayons in Akmolinsk Oblast; and Tole-bi Rayon in South Kazakhstan) and the
rating tool designed for hail insurance.

The hail crop risk assessment model is constructed based on analysis of the frequency and
severity of occurrence of hailstorms in the selected weather stations in the selected rayons . The
weather stations that were used for this assessment are. Schuchinsk, Egindykol, and Stepnogorsk
in Akmola Oblast; Diyevskaya, Kostanay, Kushmurun in Kastanay Oblast; Aktogay, Zholboldy,
and Mikhailovka in Pavlodar Oblast, and Kazygurt and Shimkent in SKO. The original series on
frequency of occurrence of hail by month used for this analysis were provided by KHM. The data
on hail severity was based on secondary qualitative information obtained from the farmers on the
field visits.

Modeling hail damage on spring wheat
The hail crop risk assessment model used for Kazakhstan has four modules, namely, exposure
module, hazard module, vulnerability model, am loss financial model. The first module, the
exposure module, is aimed for estimating the total sum insured on each of the locations under
assessments. The second module, the loss hazard module, is aimed for determining the frequency
and severity of the occurrence of hailstorms in the selected locations. The third module, the
vulnerability module, associates the frequency and severity of hail with a certain level of damage
to the crop. The fourth module, the loss financial module, calculates (based on the outputs of the
hazard module, the vulnerability module, and the exposure module) the amount of a financial
gross loss due to the occurrence of hail. The financial gross loss due to the occurrence of hail was
tested against the eventual insurance policy terms and conditions to arrive to the technical rate.

The exposure module contains the information on risk accumulation per each weather station
under analysis and for the months on which the crops are on the field. Spring wheat in NKO is
standing on the field from mid May to mid September. In south Kazakhstan, spring wheat is on
the field from February to May and, occasionally, begging of June. For the purposes of estimating
the spring wheat crop exposure the first and last day of the period at risk were considered at 50
percent of the total exposure. Table A6.1 summarizes the spring wheat risk exposures in northern
and southern oblast in Kazakhstan and the assumptions made for the hail crop risk assessment




                                              - 298 -
Table A6.1 Spring wheat crop risk exposures in North and South Kazakhstan.

Region of
   the      Jan     Feb     Mar      Apr       May      Jun     Jul    Ago     Sep      Oct       Nov     Dic
 Country


                                               50%     100%    100%   100%     50%
 North
                                               TSI      TSI     TSI    TSI     TSI


                   50%     100%     100%      100%      50%
 South
                   TSI      TSI      TSI       TSI      TSI


Source: Authors from Arka Consulting

The hazard module of the hail crop risk assessment is compounded by a frequency sub-module
and a hazard sub-module. The frequency sub-module is aimed for assess the probability of
occurrence of hail in the selected locations, the hail severity sub-module is aimed for - once the
occurrence of hail is determined - to assess the intensity of the hail event. The frequency of
occurrence of hail is calculated based on the information on the number of hailstorms observed
for each month of the year in each of the selected weather stations during the period from 1990 up
to and including 2000 according with the information provided from Kazhydromet. The
frequency of occurrence of hail is modeled by using a binomial distribution. The severity of hail
in the selected locations is estimated based on information obtained from the farmers‘ focal
meetings. All the farmers we met in the selected locations agree to mention that, although hail is
frequent event in the area, it is rarely severe. Based on this information, in order to reflex hail
severity, the study has assumed an histogram frequency distribution with the following assigned
probabilities of severity if the hail event occurs: Low; medium, severe, and very severe each of
them with probabilities of occurrence of 0.75, 0.15, 0.75, and 0.025, respectively. Table A6.2
presents the probabilities of occurrence of hail for each of the selected weather stations in
Kazakhstan.

Table A6.2. Probability of Occurrence of Hail for selected weather stations in Kazakhstan.
              Weather                        Probability of Occurrence (from Kaz-Hydromet data)
   Oblast
               Station     I      II       III    IV        V     VI      VII VIII    IX      X    XI     XII
 Akmola     Schuchinsk    0.00    0.00     0.00 0.05 0.29 0.24 0.19 0.14 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Akmola     Egindykol     0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.24 0.29 0.14 0.24 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Akmola     Stepnogorsk   0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.14 0.38 0.19 0.05 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Kostanay   Diyevskaya    0.00    0.00     0.00 0.05 0.14 0.38 0.10 0.05 0.05 0.05                 0.00   0.00
 Kostanay   Kostanay      0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.24 0.10 0.19 0.05 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Kostanay   Kushmurun     0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.24 0.19 0.19 0.05 0.00 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Kostanay   Mikhailovka   0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.14 0.19 0.10 0.19 0.14 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 NKO        Balkashino    0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.10 0.10 0.29 0.14 0.00 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Pavlodar   Aktogay       0.00    0.00     0.00 0.10 0.19 0.19 0.14 0.00 0.19 0.00                 0.05   0.00
 Pavlodar   Zholboldy     0.00    0.00     0.00 0.05 0.14 0.05 0.14 0.00 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 Pavlodar   Mikhailovka   0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.14 0.10 0.05 0.00                 0.00   0.00
 SKO        Kazygurt      0.00    0.00     0.14 0.38 0.43 0.24 0.14 0.05 0.05 0.05                 0.05   0.00
 SKO        Shimkent      0.00    0.00     0.05 0.10 0.33 0.00 0.05 0.05 0.00 0.00                 0.00   0.00
Source: Authors from KHM.

The model simulates 10,000 hail events for each selected weather station. Based on the hail
frequency and severity inputs and the corresponding stochastic distributions defined for weather




                                                     - 299 -
station, the hail risk model, by using @ Risk Software, applies Monte Carlo methodology and
generates 10,000 hail events based on the defined stochastic function for each weather station.

The crop vulnerability module of the hail crop risk assessment is aimed for, given a certain hail
severity on a given phenological stage of the spring wheat crop, to estimate a potential crop
loss. Hail damage is produced by the lost on leaf area and by the lost of grains on the last stages
of the crop. The basis of the vulnerability module is a vulnerability table with two entrances. The
first entrance is the phenological stage of the crop and the second entrance is the severity of the
hail storm. Hail damage on wheat crops vary according to the phenological stage of the crop. Hail
damage is low on the vegetative stage of the crops and becomes worse from stem elongation to
physiological maturity. Indeed, intense hailstorms cause more damage crops than the damage
caused by the mild ones. For the case of spring wheat hail risk assessment in Kazakhstan we used
a wheat vulnerability tables that are based on the hail vulnerability curves that were developed by
Munich Re and are of widespread use in the market. Table A6.3 presents the vulnerability curve
for spring wheat crop production for each month on which the crop is exposed to hail losses.

Table A6.3. Spring wheat vulnerability to hail losses in North and South Kazakhstan.
            Month                      Low                   Mild             Severe      Very Severe
    North          South
  Kazakhstan     Kazakhstan     Min          Max      Min           Max    Min     Max    Min     Max
     July          April        0.00         0.08     0.08          0.16   0.16    0.32   0.32    0.64
   August           May         0.00         0.12     0.12          0.24   0.24    0.48   0.48    0.96
  September         June        0.00         0.15     0.15          0.30   0.30    0.60   0.60    1.00
Source: Authors adapted from Munich Re Hail Vulnerability Tables

The financial loss module integrates the results from the exposure module, the hazard
model, and the vulnerability model in order to estimate a financial gross loss for the hail
event. Under the financial loss module, the 10,000 events are tested against the crop vulnerability
curves in order to determine the proportion of the loss. In case there is a loss, this proportion is
applied to the exposure module in order to determine the size of the loss. The model deducts the
losses from the remaining sum insured in the crop. That means that if the crop was insured for
KZT 10,000 and during the first month of the coverage it was a loss of 20 percent, the crop
remains insured for KZT 8,000.



Where,
TU = rayon-farm typology, 1 to 221;
To = beginning of month
T-1= previous month


Crop Portfolio Risk Assessment Model – Rating Exercise

Hail pure loss cost rating methodology

The Technical rates rating methodology is based on standard hail rating procedures. The loss cost
formula is given by:




                                                    - 300 -
Loading pure loss cost to derive Commercial Premium Rates


The technical rates calculated by the model are then loaded to cover various cost components in
order to derive final commercial premium rates which are paid by growers. The general formulae
for developing the final premium rates include:




The study did not include the analysis we have still not performed a detailed analysis of the
potential interested insurance companies cost structure - acquisition cost, administrative cost,
insurers and reinsurers profit margins expectations). For these reasons the current study, based on
the international experience in multiple period crop insurance products, assumes a target loss ratio
of 80 percent. Therefore, the derivation of pure premium rates into indicative commercial
premium rates is given by the following formulae:




                                              - 301 -
    Annex 7: Area-Yield Index Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan


This annex provides an analysis of the key design and rating issues and methodology for an
Area-Yield Index program for paddy production in Kazakhstan and draws where relevant on
international experience. Outline proposals are presented for a prototype Area-Yield Index
program for spring and autumn paddy in Kazakhstan, but it is stressed that further design work
will be required if GRK decides to go forward with this initial idea.
The section embraces all the steps involved on the design of an AYII product and concludes
with the notional cost for potential AYII for spring wheat in Kazakhstan. It starts with the
description of the features of this insurance product and the review of the international experience
in AYII. Next, the section deals with aspects related with the potential basis risk of area yield
index agricultural insurance products. Once the issues related with basis risk are addressed, the
section explains the aspects related with the coverage design. Next to this, through an applied
example for the selected crops and region, the section describes the rating methodology for an
AYII product. Following to the explanations regarding the ratting process, the section describes
the pricing issues. Finally, the outputs of these processes, that is the market reference rates, and a
simulation of a possible loss scenario are presented.

Features of Area Yield Index Insurance
AYII represents an alternative approach to MPCI insurance which aims to overcome many of
the drawbacks of traditional MPCI crop insurance. The key feature of this product is that it does
not indemnify crop yield losses at the individual field or grower level. Rather, an Area-Yield-
Index product makes indemnity payments to growers according to yield loss or shortfall against
an average area yield (the index) in a defined geographical area (e.g., Rayon or spring wheat
production zone). An area-yield index policy establishes an Insured Yield which is expressed as a
percentage (termed the ―Coverage Level‖) of the historical average yield for each crop in the
defined geographical region which forms the Insured Unit. Farmers whose fields are located
within the Insured Unit (IU) may purchase optional coverage levels which typically vary between
a minimum of 50 percent and a maximum of 80 percent of historical average yield. The actual
average yield for the insured crop is established by sample field measurement (usually involving
crop cutting) in the Insured Unit and an indemnity is paid by the amount that the actual average
yield falls short of the Insured Yield Coverage level purchased by each grower.
The key advantages of the Area-Yield approach are that moral hazard and anti-selection are
minimized, and the costs of administering such a policy are much reduced and this offers the
potential to market this product at lower premium costs to growers. The main disadvantage of
an AYII policy is that an individual grower may incur severe losses due to localized perils e.g.
hail, or flooding by a nearby river, but because these localized losses do not impact on the county
or departmental average yield, the grower does not receive an indemnity. (See Box A7.1. for
further details).




                                               - 302 -
 Box A7.1. Area-Yield Index Insurance: Advantages and Disadvantages

ADVANTAGES                                                 DISADVANTAGES
Adverse selection and Moral Hazard are                     Basis risk issues
minimized                                                  The occurrence of basis risk depends on the extent to
The indemnity is based on average area yields and not      which individual farmer‘s yield outcomes are positively
on individual farmers‘ yields. Individual farmers          correlated with the area-yield index.
cannot therefore influence the yield outcome.
Yield Data Availability for Insurance                      Not suitable for localized perils
Time-series Regional-level or Zonal-level area-yield       Area-Yield insurance will not work in areas with high
data is available at Guyana Rice Development Board.        losses due to localized perils e.g. hail, or localized frost
                                                           pockets.
Comprehensive Multi-peril Insurance suited to the          Requires Homogeneous Agro climatic Risk regions
insurance of systemic risk                                 and Cropping Systems.
The policy acts as an All Risk Yield shortfall             Area-yield insurance works best in a homogeneous
guarantee policy and is best suited to situations where    climatic zone and where cropping systems for the
severe systemic risk (e.g. drought) impacts equally        insured crop are uniform (e.g. same varieties, planting
over the defined area Insured Unit (e.g. Paddy             dates, management practices).
Production Zone).
Lower Underwriting and Delivery Costs                      Accuracy of Historical Area Yield Data
There is no need to conduct pre-inspections on             Methods of yield measurement and reporting may not
individual farms or to collect individual grower yield     be accurate racing doubts about the historical area-
data.                                                      yields.
Lower Loss Adjusting Costs                                 Problems of Accurate Measurement of Area Yields
There is no requirement for individual grower infield      Sampling error and enumerator bias can be a major
area loss assessment which is very time consuming          problem in determination of average area yields.
and costly.
Affordability of Product                                   Time delays in settling claims
The combination of reduced exposure to yield loss          Farmers often have to wait for at least 3 to 6 months
and reduced administrative costs offers the potential      post harvest for the official results of the area yields to
for cheaper premiums than for individual farmer            be published and for indemnities to be paid if
MPCI.                                                      applicable.
Source: Authors

 .
International Experience with Area Yield Index Insurance
Area-Yield Index crop insurance has been implemented in many countries. In the late 1970‘s,
India introduced area-yield index crop insurance and the USA and Canada introduced this product
in the early 1990‘s. Recently, other countries like Morocco, Mexico, Sudan, and Brazil have
developed area based crop insurance products.
In India area-yield crop insurance has operated for over 20 years and is currently the world’s
largest crop insurance program insuring about 20 million farmers. The Agricultural Insurance
Company of India (AICI) is responsible for implementing area-yield crop insurance under the
National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS). The program is targeted at small and marginal
farmers (with less than 2 hectares), and whom are highly dependent on access to seasonal crop
credit. Crop Insurance is compulsory for borrowing farmers and voluntary for non-borrowing
farmers. The Insured Unit is normally the block or panchayet which comprises a group of nearby
villages and which may include up to 27,000 acres or more of a single crop and several thousands
of small and marginal farmers. Farmers may select coverage levels of 60 percent, 80 percent or
maximum of 90 percent of the 5-year average area-yield. The program is administered through
the rural agricultural bank branch network in each state and department and block (group of
villages). Actual area-yields are established through sample crop-cutting. This is a major and



                                                 - 303 -
costly exercise and suffers from delays in processing the results. Indemnity payments are
therefore often delayed for 6 months or more.
In USA, AYII is marketed under the name Group Risk Plan (GRP). Under the GRP the pay
outs of the coverage rather than be based on the individual farmer's yield loss experience; they are
based on the actual value of an area-yield index in a certain area, namely the insured unit, which
in US is defined by the county level ( 2500 km2 average insured unit). The indemnities on the
GRP proceeds when the actual yield for the insured crop at the county on which the insured is
situated, as determined by the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS), falls below the
guaranteed Yield chosen by the farmer. Under the GRP, farmers can choose among different
coverage levels (Insured Yield options): 90 percent, 85 percent, 80 percent, 75 percent or 70
percent of the expected county yield. The sum insured value for each crop is based on a
percentage of the expected market price. The grower may elect an insured value of between a
minimum of 90% and a maximum of 150% of the expected market price. The justification for
permitting growers to insure at up to 150% of the expected market price is that this affords
adequate protection for growers whose own yields are higher than the county average. Final
payments are not determined until six months after the crop harvest when NASS released the
actual county yields for each county. Payments are then made within 30 days. GRP insurance
policies are easier to administrate and less costly than the traditional individual grower MPCI
policy. However, individual crop losses may not be covered if the county yield does not suffer a
similar level of loss. This type of insurance is most appropriate for farmers whose crop
production and yields (and losses) typically follow the county pattern.

The Issue of Basis Risk
Basis Risk can be defined as the potential mismatch in terms of yield performance between the
individual field and the geographical area defined as the IU for the AYII. The feature that the
indemnity payments of an AYII are based on a yield loss or shortfall against an average area yield
(the index) in a defined geographical area, makes room to the existence of basis risk on these
kinds of insurance products. Because of this reason, two undesirable situations may occur: (a)
growers who not suffered any yield shortfall below the coverage level receive indemnities from
the insurance because the insured unit where they are situated has suffered a yield shortfall in
respect to the guaranteed yield, and (b) growers that have actual yields below the coverage level,
do not received any indemnity from the insurance because the actual yield for the IU on which are
situated is above the coverage level. Both situations are serious drawbacks for the sustainability
of an AYII product. The issue of the basis risk must be seriously addressed on the design of AYII.
Basis Risk can be mitigated but it cannot be eliminated from an AYII portfolio. The issue of the
basis risk is related to how correlated are the yields at growers field level and the yields in the
geographical area selected as IU for the coverage. The choice of the guaranteed yields for the
coverage and the selection of IU are key topics that need to be addressed on the design of area-
yield insurance products to mitigate the basis risk. The experience with AYII products
demonstrates that as higher the coverage level is settled, the bigger the basis risk problem is;
likewise, as bigger the geographical area selected as IU is, the bigger the basis risk problem is.
Basis risk is a serious issue for area-yield index products that have coverage levels settled close to
the expected yields. Small yield shortfalls in respect to the expected yields are more in relation
with idiosyncratic risks, like crop management and crop husbandry practices, than with weather
events. At high coverage levels, the correlations between the yield performance at the individual
grower field level and the yield performance at the geographical area selected as IU are not strong
enough. The correct definition of the insured unit is also a key factor for the mitigation of basis
risk issues in an AYII coverage. Area zone boundaries for an AYII must be selected so as to
group together the largest possible number of farms with similar climate and soils (Skees, 1997).


                                               - 304 -
In other words, as bigger the geographical area selected as IU is, the lower the probability to
group together the largest possible number of farms with similar climate and soils is.
The issue of Basis risk was examined under the current study for spring wheat gown in
Kazakhstan. In order to assess basis risk under an AYII program, it is necessary to compare the
crop yields obtained by individual farmers and to check the differences between farmers‘ yields
and actual average yield in the same year at Rayon level. For the Rayons which were selected for
detailed analysis under this study, ARKA Consulting kindly collected some individual farmer-
level spring wheat crop yield data for the three year period 2008 to 2010. This individual farm-
level spring wheat yield data for a sample of about 10 farmers has been analysed for Aktogay and
Zhelezninski Rayons in Pavlodar Oblast and the results are summarized in Table A7.1 at the end
of this Annex.
For Aktogay the average expected yield is 5.8 centners/Ha and assuming a 50% AYII insured
yield coverage level of 2.9 centners/Ha, Table 7.1 shows that in 2008 when the average rayon
spring wheat yield was 1.3 centners per hectare all farmers would have received an indemnity of
2.9 – 1.3 = 1.6 centners per hectare. However, the actual yields for this small sample of farms
was considerably higher than the Rayon yield in 2008 and in this case the AYII Cover would
have paid out bigger losses than were actually incurred by all these farmers. The 2008 farmer
yields were highly variable (COV 42%) and the degree of basis risk is evidenced by the major
differences (divergence) between individual farmer yields and the Rayon Yield Index. In 2009
which was a well above average yield year the sampled farmers achieved a very high average
yield of 9.8 centners per Ha with low variation (COV 8%) against the Rayon average or expected
yield of 5.8 Centners/Ha. In 2009 the AYII policy would not have paid out given the very good
yields achieved by most farmers in Aktoby Rayon and would have therefore performed as
intended. In 2010 however, which was again a severe drought year, the policy would not have
paid out any indemnities as the Rayon average yield of 3.2 centners/Ha would have been above
the 50% Insured Yield coverage level of 2.9 centners/Ha. In this case nearly 50% of the sampled
farmer achieved average yields of less than the 50% coverage level, but they would not have
received an indemnity because other farmers achieved higher yields thereby raising the Rayon
average yield to 3.2 centners/Ha. Basis risk would therefore have been a problem in 2010 with
50% coverage level.
For Zhelezninski Rayon which has an expected yield of spring wheat of only 6.1 centners/Ha
the same assumed 50% AYII coverage level would amount to 3.05 centners/Ha. In 2008 which
was a below average yield year with a Rayon average yield of 4.4 centners/Ha there would have
been no indemnities because the this yield would have exceeded the 50% insured coverage level
of 3.05 centners/Ha. In this case the actual average yields achieved by individual farmers very
closely approximated the rayon average yield and no farmer achieved less than 4 centners/Ha. In
other words, the policy responded as intended and basis risk would have been low. 2009 and
2010 were extremely good yield years with the sampled farmers achieving average yields of 17.8
centners and 10.5 centners/Ha respectively or well above the average yield and again there would
have been no payouts.
The above analysis indicates that under any future possible AYII program for spring wheat the
planners should analyse on a Rayon by Rayon case the individual grower spring wheat yields
and compare these against the Rayon average yields in order to assess Basis Risk. As a
guideline the AYII product will operate best where there is a low degree of yield variability
between individual farmers in a the same year and it will not perform so well where individual
farmer yields are highly variable.




                                            - 305 -
Insured Yield Coverage Levels
Area-Yield Insurance policies usually offer Insured Yield Coverage levels of between 90%
maximum and 50% minimum of annual average yield for the spring wheat production zone.
The methodology for cleaning and detrending the actual rayon 17-year spring-wheat yields and
then in simulating Rayon-level yields with 5000 iterations is outlined in Appendix 7.1. at the end
of Annex 7. The average yields for the AYII Cover are presented separately for Commercial
Farmers, Agricultural Enterprises and then the aggregate or combined yields for both types of
farmer are presented in Table A7.2. The corresponding Rayon-level 10% up to a maximum of
80% insured yield coverage levels are shown in Tables A7.3, A7.4. and A7.5 respectively for
Commercial Farmers, Agricultural Enterprises and finally for the combined yields for both sets of
farmers..

Estimation of Technical Rates and Indicative Commercial Premium Rates
for Area-Yield Index Insurance
The rating methodology for the Rayon-level AYII spring wheat product is set out in Appendix
7.1. and closely approximates the procedure used for individual grower MPCI, the main
differences being (i) there is no need to model the higher yield variability expected at the
individual farmer level and (ii) the average calculated loss costs do not need adjusting for
idiosyncratic risk (e.g. crop hail) under the AYII cover.


The technical and indicative commercial premium rates for AYII cover have been estimated
separately for Commercial Farmers and Agricultural Enterprises (production Enterprises and
then finally for the Combined aggregate cover for both types of farmer at Rayon level. The
technical rates can be provided to interested parties on request and the indicative commercial
premium rates for an assumed 70% target loss ratio are presented in Tables A7.2, A7.3 and A7.4
respectively for the Commercial Framers, Production Enterprises and finally for both types of
farmer and for insured yield coverage levels of 10% up to a maximum of 80% of the Rayon
average expected yields for each type of farmer and in aggregate.

Estimation of the Probable Maximum Loss (PML) for the selected area and
crops
The CRAM is programmed to calculate the Probable Maximum Losses which might be
expected under an Area Yield Index AYII program for spring wheat in Kazakhstan. The
calculated PML‘s for the combined Commercial Farmer and Production Enterprise yields are
presented in Figure A7.1. and Table A7.a. below. For a 50% coverage level the 1-in-a-100 year
PML would be about PML would be about 24% of TSI or a loss of KZT 51 billion (US$ 343
million) assuming 100% scheme uptake. This would be equivalent to a loss ratio of about 370%.
For the highest 80% coverage level the 1-in-a-100 year PML would be about 45% of TSI or a loss
of KZT 152.7 billion (US$ 1.02 billion) assuming 100% scheme uptake. This would be
equivalent to a loss ratio of about 259%.




                                             - 306 -
Figure A7.1. Spring Wheat AYII scheme PML estimates by coverage level from 10% to 80%

               60.00%

               50.00%
                                                                                                         "10% Coverage"
               40.00%                                                                                    "20% Coverage"
 Loss Cost %




                                                                                                         "30% Coverage"
               30.00%
                                                                                                         "40% Coverage"
               20.00%                                                                                    "50% Coverage"
                                                                                                         "60% Coverage"
               10.00%
                                                                                                         "70% Coverage"

                0.00%                                                                                    "80% Coverage"
                        1




                                    50




                                                   100




                                                                    150




                                                                                   200




                                                                                                  250
                                                 Return Period (years)


Table A7.a. Estimated 1 in 100 Year PML for AYII Wheat Scheme (100% figures)
                                                                Coverage level
Item
                             10%          20%      30%         40%          50%       60%         70%      80%
PML (% of TSI)              1.11%        4.53%   10.04%      17.40%       24.29%    31.84%      39.15%   44.99%
PML (KZT Billion )            0.5          3.8     12.8         29.5        51.5         81.0    116.3    152.7
PML (US$ Million)               3           25       85         197          343          540      775    1,018
1 in 100 year PML
                            466%         461%     440%         414%        372%          334%    297%     259%
Loss Ratio %
Source: Authors


Appendix 7.1.
Risk Modeling and Rating for Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII)
Crop Portfolio Risk Assessment Model – Design Features –
This section presents the basic design features of the Crop Risk Assessment Model (CRAM) for
spring wheat production in the selected oblasts in North Kazakhstan and the rating tool designed
for AYII

The CRAM is constructed based on analysis of variation of spring wheat annual average yields
for a 17year time-series, from crop year 1994 up to and including the crop year 2010, at the rayon
level.

The CRAM was developed using the sown area, harvested area, production and annual average
yield statistics for each of the rayons in North Kazakhstan, Akmola, Kostanay, Karaganda,
Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan, Aktobe, and WKO in North Kazakhstan region. The original series
used for this analysis were provided by ARKS.

Planted Area



                                                          - 307 -
According to information obtained from ARKS, spring wheat crops sown area amount to 13.26
million hectares on average for the period 2007 – 2010. Out of the 13.26 million hectares planted
with spring wheat in North Kazakhstan region, 8.96 hectares (68 percent) are planted by
agribusiness enterprises and 4.31 million hectares (32 percent) are planted by commercial
farmers. The CRAM assumes that the annual spring wheat planted area has remained constant at
the four year average (period 2007-2010) over the 17 years sown area series. The reason for this
assumption is to remove seasonal variations for each rayon from the areas.

In order to be eligible for CRAM, two criteria have been set: minimum planted area per region
and a minimum of 17 years continuous annual average yield data. In order to ensure that there are
sufficient numbers of farmers growing the crop in a selected region, a minimum area of 10,000
hectares has been provisionally settled as a requirement for a crop in a certain region to be
eligible for the model. The second criterion, at least 17 continuous years of yield data available
for each rayon to qualify for the CRAM, has been settled to have continuous series in order to
establish possible yield correlations among different production zones.

Rayon Crop Yield Data

The CRAM uses rayon annual average yields for spring wheat crops for the period starting 1994
and up to crop year 2010 as reported by ARKS. The original rayon annual average yields from
1994 to 2010 are available on request from ARKS.

The ARKS reports average yields on sown area basis at rayon level. This is an important
advantage for risk modeling purposes, since the yields on sown capture, both, the variations due
to yield performance as well as the yield variations due to full crop losses.

The ARKS reports average yields for two categories of farm typology, agribusiness enterprises
and commercial farmers. This fact allows CRAM to perform the risk assessment at rayon level
with a breakdown per each type of farm typology.

Valuation Prices

For CRAM risk modeling purposes, spring wheat has been valued at the average market average
price per centner for the period 2008-2010 for the month of September, KZT 3120 per centner.
The crop price is maintained as a constant value for all the past 17 years.

Yield Data Cleaning and trending to establish the Central Tendency

The annual average yield series at zone level used to feed CRAM must be adjusted in order to
reflect the current state of the art in terms of expected yields and yield variability for the selected
crops for the risk assessment. This sub-section describes the methodologies followed to clean the
yield data, determine the trend in yield data and, finally, to adjust the historical yields to the
current expected yield at Region level.

Eliminate Yield Outliers




                                               - 308 -
The first step was to detect and eliminate the statistical outliers from the annual average yield
series for each of the selected crop and regions by applying the Chauvenet107 criteria. Each of the
17 years annual average yields records for each agribusiness enterprises and commercial farmers
on each of the rayon If, by applying the Chauvenet criteria a yield outlier was detected, then the
annual average crop yield was compared with the annual average crop yield performance for the
same crop and year in neighboring rayon. If, as result of this comparison, it was detected that the
crop yield performance in neighboring rayons diverged significantly in respect to the annual
average yield for the target rayon and year, then yield, production, and harvested area figures
were revisited to identify the cause of the divergence.

Adjusting Zonal Average Yield Data for Trends

 The crop yield central tendency is associated with crop management and technology practices;
crop yield deviations from the central tendency are associated with effects of nature. The main
objective of adjusting the historic annual average yield series was to isolate the effect on yields of
the improvement on crop management practices and the increase in technology application to the
crops along 17-year period considered for the analysis. A simplified method was adopted for
determining the central tendency for each crop and each zone in the CRAM. The method aims to
capture the non-linear yield tendency in the 17-years of annual average yield series at zonal level
by using this yield series fitted to a lineal trend line and to an exponential trend line, and the five
year moving average the 17 years annual average yield series.

Expected Yields and adjusted crop variability.

The design of the CRAM is based on the spring wheat annual average yields for the period 2006
– 2010 at rayon level and their standard deviation; thus, these inputs must be representative of the
current state of the art of spring wheat crop production in each of the analyzed rayons. That is, all
the long terms and cyclical effects of crop management practice and of technology application on
the historic annual average yields must be isolated prior to estimating these parameters for risk
modeling purposes.

In order to calculate the expected annual average yield for spring wheat for each rayon in the 8
oblasts under analysis, the simple average of the most recent five years historic annual average
yields was calculated. This method to estimate annual average expected yields for a certain crop
located in a certain rayon is common in the agricultural insurance practice in countries where the
constraint of scarce annual average crop yield data is a problem.

The second part of this analysis was to estimate the expected annual average yield volatility of the
annual average yield. The method used for this purpose was to measure the deviations between
the historic actual annual average yields for each year of the series in respect to the corresponding
annual average yield of the trend line. Then, these deviations were applied to the expected yield
to obtain an adjusted annual average yield series.

Modeling Expected Yields



107
   In statistical theory, the Chauvenet‘s Criterion is a means of assessing whether one piece of
experimental data – an outlier- from a set of observations, is likely to be spurious.


                                                  - 309 -
The estimation of losses for the spring wheat crop portfolio was performed through a risk
modeling exercise using the CRAM. Risk modeling is a fundamental step in agricultural
insurance program design and ratemaking procedures. The main objective of crop risk modeling
is to estimate, based on the available information, a yield probability density function that reflects
the stochastic nature of yield outcomes. The yield model relies on two basic fundamentals: (a) a
crop yield probability density function inferred from the historic spring wheat annual average
yields for each rayon and type of farmer in the analyzed portfolio, and (b) a correlation matrix of
rayon-level and farmer-type level spring wheat annual average which reflects the covariant risk
under the portfolio. The probability density functions were inferred from the technology adjusted
annual average yields from the annual average yield series 1994 to 2010 that were fitted to a
Weibull probability distribution.
For the purpose of assessing risks for an individual grower AYII scheme is necessary to the
Probability functions fitted based on rayon level actualized annual average yields into spring
wheat yield probability function that reflect the yield variability at individual farm level.
Individual crop yield variability is always bigger than aggregate rayon level crop yield variability.
Figure A7.2: Akmola- Bulandinsky: Spring Wheat. Rayon-Level yield probability density function

                                        Spring Wheat. Akmola-Bulandinski Rayon.

                             4.36                           17.81
                   0.1
                  0.09
                  0.08
                  0.07
                  0.06
      frequency




                  0.05
                  0.04
                  0.03
                  0.02
                  0.01
                    0
                         0




                                    5




                                          10




                                                       15




                                                                       20




                                                                                   25




                                                                                        30




                                                      Yield (Centner/he.)                           35


                                                  Spring Wheat Yield Rayon Level


Source: Authors from CRAM
The outputs of yield probability density functions obtained for each rayon and type of farmer
were correlated in order to reflect the covariance on yields for risk modeling purposes. Spring
wheat crop production in Kazakhstan is exposed to drought which is a very systemic risk.
Variations in spring wheat crop yields are often caused by factors that typically affect a large
area. The issue of a portfolio being exposed to systemic risk, since it affects the degree on which
the risks can be diversified, has severe implications for the designing of crop insurance. In light of
the systemic risk faced by spring wheat crop production in Kazakhstan, the CRAM considered the
correlations among each rayon and type of farmer in order to simulate the potential losses for the
portfolio. The Correlation matrix is presented in Annex 1.




                                                   - 310 -
CRAM Simulation
Based on the stochastic distributions defined for each rayon and type of farmer and based on the
spring wheat rayon level correlation matrix, the CRAM, by using @ Risk Software, applies
Monte Carlo methodology and generates 5,000 iterations of yields based on the defined stochastic
function for each rayon and type of farmer which are correlated each other.

CRAM Output
As a result of CRAM a database compounded by 221 combinations of rayon and farm type level
and 5000 yield iterations for each of the combination rayon and farmers‘ type is generated. This
database is the one used as underlying for risk assessment and risk pricing purposes.


Crop Portfolio Risk Assessment Model – Rating Exercise
Insured Yield Coverage Levels

AYII was devised for spring crop production in the 8 selected oblast in north Kazakhstan offering
yield coverage levels of between 80% maximum and 10% minimum of the 5-years average yield
for the period 2006-2010.

AYII rating methodology
AYII pure loss cost rating methodology

The Technical rates rating methodology is based on standard AYII rating procedures. The loss
cost formula is given by:



For the AYII Program, the loss cost formula is given by:




Where,
Y= year, 2006-2010;
U = rayon-farm typology, 1 to 221;
C = crop, spring wheat
Coverage Level is between a minimum of 10% and maximum of 40% of average yield.

Using Contiguous Counties to Smooth Rates

The AYII insurance pure loss costs obtained for each rayon-type of farmer are smoothed by
utilizing information from contiguous rayons (Skees, 1997). The smoothed pure loss cost for each
rayon-type of farmer is calculated as a weighted average of the pure loss cost for that rayon-type
of farmer and the pure loss cost for each contiguous rayon for the same type of farmer. The
formula to calculate the smoothed pure loss cost is:




                                             - 311 -
The weights are calculated as follows:




Subject to:



Where,              is the weight assigned to the target rayon-type of farmer and
is the average hectares planted in the target rayon over the most recent 4-year period; and




Where,              is the weight assigned to the ith contiguous rayon, and                 is
the average area planted over the most recent 4-year period for each contiguous rayons. All
weights sum to one.

Loading the smoothed pure loss cost rates to derive technical rates

Likewise for MPCI calculation, a security loading was added to the area yield index insurance
rating model in order to consider those catastrophic losses that were not captured within the 17-
years spring wheat crop yield series used as basis for risk modeling. With that purpose, the
method of risk exposure was introduced in the rate calculation. The method of risk exposure
consists in calculate the loading factor based on the 1 in 100 year probable maximum loss (PML)
for the whole portfolio under the assumption that a loss approximately equal to the PML will take
place within a certain number of years ahead. For the purposes of the rating calculations for AYII
in Kazakhstan it was assumed that a spring wheat portfolio loss similar to the spring wheat PML
will take place within the next 10 years.




Security loadings are Coverage specific. The PML for the portfolio varies according to the
selected level of coverage. Table A7.b presents the security loadings used to load the Rayon-level
AYII spring wheat average loss costs for the different levels of coverage analysed in the study.

Table A7.b. Security Loadings applied to AYII average loss cost rates to derive AYII Technical Rates
Coverage Level      10%        20%        30%          40%        50%        60%        70%        80%
 PML 1-100%        1.11%      4.53%     10.04%       17.40%     24.29%     31.84%     39.15%     44.99%
 Return Period    10-years   10-years   10-years     10-years   10-years   10-years   10-years   10-years
Loading Factor    0.111%     0.453%      1/00%        1.74%      2.43%      3.18%      3.91%      4.45%

Last, the calculation of the technical rates consist on the integration of the smoothed loss cost
calculation, and the loadings due to idiosyncratic risks and catastrophic risks. The formula
summarizing the calculation of the technical rates is presented below:




                                                   - 312 -
Loading Technical to derive Commercial Premium Rates

The technical rates calculated by the model are then loaded to cover various cost components in
order to derive final commercial premium rates which are paid by growers. The general formulae
for developing the final premium rates include:




The study did not include the analysis we have still not performed a detailed analysis of the
potential interested insurance companies cost structure - acquisition cost, administrative cost,
insurers and reinsurers profit margins expectations). For these reasons the current study, based on
the international experience in multiple period crop insurance products, assumes a target loss ratio
of 70 percent. Therefore, the derivation of pure premium rates into indicative commercial
premium rates is given by the following formulae:




It is noted 70 percent is a reasonable target loss ratio for an MPCI cover. We understand that, if
the scheme reaches economies of scale, the administrative expenses could be substantially
reduced; thus, the target loss ratio could be increased




                                              - 313 -
Annex Table A7.1. Comparison of infidel farmer spring wheat yields with Rayon Average Yields, Pavlodar District

Aktogay
Year                                              2008         2009         2010
Rayon Average Yield                                 1.3          8.5          3.2                                 Aktogay: Individual Yields (25km away WS) vs Rayon
                                                                                               12.0
Farm Kairat                                                      8.7          2.1                                                        Yields
Sagat                                               2.2         10.5          1.2              10.0




                                                                                            Yields (centner/he)
                                                                                                                                                          Rayon Average Yield
Elita                                               2.9         10.5          4.0
                                                                                                          8.0                                              Farm Kairat
Pobeda                                                           8.5          1.7
                                                                                                                                                           Sagat
Kazakhstan                                                       9.8          1.2                         6.0
                                                                                                                                                           Elita
Aslan                                                            9.8          2.0
Vesna                                               2.3         10.5          4.0                         4.0                                             Pobeda

Loza                                                4.7          9.8          5.4                                                                         Kazakhstan
                                                                                                          2.0
Urozhay                                                          9.7          3.0                                                                         Aslan
Group Average                                       3.0          9.8          2.7                         0.0                                             Vesna
Group Standard Deviation                            1.3          0.7          1.5                                                                         Loza
                                                                                                                    2008         2009          2010
Coeficient of Variation                            42%           8%          53%


Zhelezninski
Year                                              2008         2009         2010
Rayon Average Yield                                 4.4         17.5          7.9                                  Zhelezninski: Individual Yields (25km away WS) vs
                                                                                           35.0                                       Rayon Yields
Akbiday                                             5.8         30.0         14.0
Rodnik                                              4.1         18.0         11.0
                                                                                           30.0                                                            Rayon Average Yield
Salun                                               4.0         18.0         11.0
                                                                                                                                                           Akbiday
                                                                                        Yields (centner/he)

Angelina                                            4.5         20.0         12.0          25.0
Ageenko                                             4.3         19.0         10.0                                                                          Rodnik

Nurgaliyeva                                         4.1         15.0          9.0          20.0                                                            Salun

Kirilov                                             4.2         18.0         10.0                                                                          Angelina
Svintitsky                                          4.1         18.0          9.0          15.0                                                            Ageenko
Tupitsin                                            4.1         18.0          9.0                                                                          Nurgaliyeva
Toktushakov                                         4.6         18.0         11.0          10.0
                                                                                                                                                           Kirilov
Druzik                                              4.5         15.0         12.0
                                                                                                     5.0                                                   Svintitsky
Trusova                                             4.3         10.0         10.0
                                                                                                                                                           Tupitsin
Andreenko                                           4.2         15.0          9.0
Group Average                                       4.4         17.8         10.5                    0.0                                                   Toktushakov

Group Standard Deviation                            0.5          4.5          1.5                                   2008         2009          2010        Druzik
Coeficient of Variation                            11%          25%          14%

Source: Author's analysis of Individual grower spring wheat yield data provided by Arka Consulting August 2011




                                                                       - 314 -
Annex 7. Table

                                                 C o m m e r-                                                                                             C o m m e r-
                                                     c ia l       P ro d u c t io n          A ll                                                             c ia l       P ro d u c t io n         A ll
C ro p / D is t ric t / S u b d is t ric t       F a rm e rs      E n t e rp ris e s     F a rm e rs     C ro p / D is t ric t / S u b d is t ric t       F a rm e rs      E n t e rp ris e s    F a rm e rs
                                                                                                         S u b t o t a l C F / Ka ra g a n d in s k a y            5 .7                   8 .1           6 .8
Akm o la / Akko l                                           8.1                   8.8              8.7   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Altyns a rin                           15.0                  13.3             13.7
Akm o la / Ars ha ly                                       10.8                   9.5              9.9   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Am a nge di                             7.7                   7.2              7.5
Akm o la / As tra s ha ns ki                                6.1                   7.6              7.0   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Arka lyk c ity                          6.2                   9.2              8.0
Akm o la / Atba s a rs ki                                  9.3                    9.2              9.2   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Auliyko ls ki                           8.2                   9.9              9.5
Akm o la / B ula ndins ki                                  10.8                  10.4             10.4   Ko s ta na s ka y/ De nis o vs ki                         12.0                   11.9            12.0
Akm o la / C e lino gra ds ki                              7.5                    7.0              7.1   Ko s ta na s ka y/ F e do ro vs ki                        16.2                  16.4             16.3
Akm o la / Enbe ks hilde rs ki                             10.7                  12.1             11.9   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Ka m is ty                              8.8                   9.2              9.1
Akm o la / Es ils ki                                       7.6                    7.9              7.9   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Ka ra ba lyk                           14.5                  14.7             14.7
Akm o la / Ko ks he ta u                                   5.6                    3.6              0.0   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Ka ra s u                               11.4                 10.8             11.0
Akm o la / Ko rga lzhins ki                                4.7                    5.8              5.6   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Uzunko ls ki                           16.9                  14.0             14.7
Akm o la / S a ndikta us ki                                10.5                  12.0             11.7   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Zha nge ldin                            6.0                   4.8              0.0
Akm o la / S ho rta ndins ki                               8.8                    8.7              8.7   Ko s ta na s ka y/ Zhe tika ra                             8.5                   8.4              8.4
Akm o la / S huc he ns ki                                  11.5                  11.2             11.2   Ko s ta na s ka y/Ko s ta na s ka y                       16.7                  12.7             14.9
Akm o la / S te pno go r                                   5.4                    5.4              0.0   Ko s ta na s ka y/M e ndika ra                            17.3                  14.0             15.2
Akm o la / Ye gindiko ls ki                                6.0                    7.2              6.8   Ko s ta na s ka y/Na uirzym                                8.8                   6.8              7.9
Akm o la / Ze re ndins ki                                  11.8                  14.1             13.6   Ko s ta na s ka y/ R udnyi c ity                           4.6                  10.9              4.6
Akm o la / Zha ks i                                        11.5                  11.8             11.7   Ko s ta na s ka y/S a ryko l                              14.9                  14.6             14.7
Akm o la / Zha rka ins ki                                  7.2                    8.6              8.1   Ko s ta na s ka y/Ta ra no vs ki                          12.0                   11.3            11.5
Akm o la /Ere m e nta us ki                                8.3                    7.4              7.7   S u b t o t a l P E / Ko s t a n a s k a y               12 .6                 11.8             12 .1

S u b t o t a l P E / A k m o la                          8 .3                  9 .5             9 .2    NKO/ Airta u                                              15.5                  13.2             13.6

EKO/ Aya go z                                               6.1                   4.5              0.0   NKO/ Akka yn                                              16.6                  14.4             14.9
EKO/ B e s ka ra ga y                                      5.6                    6.0              5.8   NKO/ Akzha r                                              13.7                   11.0            11.9
EKO/ B o ro duliha                                         8.7                    11.1             9.6   NKO/ Es il                                                15.4                  13.8             14.0
EKO/ Glubo ko e                                            14.5                  13.7             14.2   NKO/ G.M us re po v                                       14.8                  13.2             13.4
EKO/ Ka to nka ra ga y                                     13.9                  13.1              0.0   NKO/ Kyzylzha r                                            17.1                 14.3             15.1
EKO/ Ko kpe kti                                            10.2                   7.7              9.0   NKO/ M .Zhum a ba ye v                                    15.2                  13.7             14.2
EKO/ Kurc hum                                              10.9                   4.6              0.0   NKO/ M a m liut                                           16.0                  13.7             14.2
EKO/ R idde r c ity                                        17.1                  15.2              0.0   NKO/ S ha la kin                                          14.7                  12.9             13.3
EKO/ S e m e y c ity                                       5.6                    6.5              5.6   NKO/ Ta iyns ha                                           14.7                  13.3             13.5
EKO/ S he m o na iha                                       14.4                  15.8             15.2   NKO/ Tim irya ze v                                        14.9                  12.4             13.5
EKO/ Ta rba ga ta y                                        10.5                   5.4              0.0   NKO/ Ua liha no v                                         12.2                   11.3            11.5
EKO/ Ula n                                                 8.8                   11.8              9.8   NKO/ Zha m bil                                            16.3                   11.6            13.2
EKO/ Urzha r                                               9.2                    7.4              9.2   S u b t o t a l P E / N KO                               15 .1                 13 .0           13 .5
EKO/ Us t-Ka m e no go rs k c ity                          12.0                  11.9              0.0   P a vlo da r/ Aks u c ity                                  4.8                   4.3              0.0
EKO/ Za ys a n                                             15.5                  10.9              0.0   P a vlo da r/ Aks uis ky                                   5.4                   4.3              0.0
EKO/ Zha rm a                                              9.6                    7.9              0.0   P a vlo da r/ Akto ga is ky                                5.8                   5.4              5.8
EKO/ Zyrya n                                               14.7                  14.1             14.3   P a vlo da r/ B a ya na uls ki                             4.7                   5.7              0.0

S u b t o t a l C F / E KO                                9 .7                  11.4            10 .4    P a vlo da r/ Ekiba s tuz c ity                            9.1                   5.2              7.4

Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Aba i c ity                           5.0                   10.9              0.0   P a vlo da r/ Irtys hs ki                                  7.0                   6.7              6.9
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Akto ga y                              6.1                   4.9              0.0   P a vlo da r/ Ka s hyrs ki                                 8.7                   8.2              8.5
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ B uha rzhira u                        5.9                    8.3              7.0   P a vlo da r/ P a vlo da r a re a                          5.9                   5.3              0.0
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Ka rka ra ly                          6.0                    3.2              6.0   P a vlo da r/ S he rna ktins ky a re a                     7.5                   7.6              7.5
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Nura                                  4.4                    8.5              7.2   P a vlo da r/ Us pe nka a re a                             7.7                   6.7              7.2
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Os a ka ro v                          6.6                    7.9              7.2   P a vlo da r/ Zhe le znins ki                              4.3                   9.0              6.1
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ S he ts ki                            5.3                    5.7              5.3   S u b t o t a l P E / P a v lo d a r                      6 .7                  7 .5            7 .0
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Ulyta u                               5.8                    6.2              6.0   A ll S e a s o n s a g g re g a t e                      10 .9                  11.1            11.0
Ka ra ga ndins ka y/ Zha na a rka                          4.8                    5.5              4.8

S u b t o t a l C F / Ka ra g a n d in s k a y            5 .7                   8 .1            6 .8




                                                                                                - 315 -
Table A7.2 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 70% and Guaranteed Yields Area Yield Index
Insurance for Spring Wheat produced by Commercial Farmers in North Kazakhstan Region
                                                                                                          Coverage Level
                                          10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast              Rayon
                                  Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                   Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                  (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Akmola         Akkol               0.81     0.47%       1.61     1.95%      2.42     4.37%      3.22     7.67%     4.03    11.43%      4.83    15.80%     5.64     20.62%     6.44     25.58%
Akmola         Arshaly             1.08     0.32%       2.15     1.30%      3.23     3.03%      4.31     5.59%     5.38     8.64%      6.46    12.41%     7.53     16.82%     8.61     21.62%
Akmola         Astrashanski        0.61     0.52%       1.21     2.05%      1.82     4.47%      2.42     7.83%     3.03    11.75%      3.64    16.32%     4.24     21.30%     4.85     26.47%
Akmola         Atbasarski          0.93     0.42%       1.86     1.84%      2.78     4.16%      3.71     7.36%     4.64    11.10%      5.57    15.49%     6.50     20.37%     7.42     25.45%
Akmola         Bulandinski         1.08     0.30%       2.17     1.30%      3.25     3.05%      4.34     5.64%     5.42     8.78%      6.50    12.64%     7.59     17.10%     8.67     21.89%
Akmola         Celinogradski       0.75     0.53%       1.49     2.19%      2.24     4.72%      2.99     8.19%     3.74    12.20%      4.48    16.71%     5.23     21.64%     5.98     26.74%
Akmola         Enbekshilderski     1.07     0.40%       2.15     1.63%      3.22     3.85%      4.29     6.95%     5.37    10.52%      6.44    14.68%     7.52     19.26%     8.59     24.09%
Akmola         Esilski             0.76     0.49%       1.52     2.00%      2.28     4.43%      3.05     7.68%     3.81    11.39%      4.57    15.74%     5.33     20.60%     6.09     25.65%
Akmola         Korgalzhinski       0.47     0.45%       0.94     1.85%      1.41     4.13%      1.88     7.32%     2.35    11.05%      2.83    15.43%     3.30     20.20%     3.77     25.21%
Akmola         Sandiktauski        1.05     0.45%       2.10     1.66%      3.15     3.88%      4.20     7.06%     5.24    10.75%      6.29    14.94%     7.34     19.62%     8.39     24.54%
Akmola         Shortandinski       0.88     0.43%       1.77     1.72%      2.65     3.87%      3.54     6.84%     4.42    10.38%      5.31    14.61%     6.19     19.41%     7.08     24.47%
Akmola         Shuchenski          1.15     0.27%       2.30     1.13%      3.46     2.64%      4.61     4.92%     5.76     7.71%      6.91    11.27%     8.06     15.48%     9.22     20.17%
Akmola         Yegindikolski       0.60     0.57%       1.20     2.11%      1.80     4.61%      2.40     8.03%     3.00    11.95%      3.60    16.46%     4.20     21.44%     4.80     26.60%
Akmola         Zerendinski         1.18     0.25%       2.36     1.13%      3.54     2.72%      4.73     5.19%     5.91     8.21%      7.09    11.92%     8.27     16.20%     9.45     20.82%
Akmola         Zhaksi              1.15     0.38%       2.31     1.71%      3.46     3.85%      4.62     6.80%     5.77    10.34%      6.93    14.58%     8.08     19.36%     9.24     24.36%
Akmola         Zharkainski         0.72     0.29%       1.45     1.29%      2.17     3.01%      2.89     5.50%     3.62     8.57%      4.34    12.37%     5.07     16.77%     5.79     21.53%
Akmola         Erementauski        0.83     1.10%       1.66     3.53%      2.49     6.88%      3.32    11.00%     4.15    15.46%      4.98    20.29%     5.81     25.43%     6.64     30.56%
EKO            Beskaragay          0.56     1.37%       1.13     4.23%      1.69     8.00%      2.25    12.55%     2.81    17.54%      3.38    22.90%     3.94     28.44%     4.50     33.87%
EKO            Boroduliha          0.87     0.83%       1.73     2.89%      2.60     5.95%      3.46     9.81%     4.33    14.00%      5.19    18.71%     6.06     23.75%     6.93     28.78%
EKO            Glubokoe            1.45     0.32%       2.91     1.35%      4.36     3.15%      5.82     5.59%     7.27     8.56%      8.73    12.26%     10.18    16.58%     11.63    21.30%
EKO            Kokpekti            1.02     0.21%       2.04     1.02%      3.07     2.50%      4.09     4.64%     5.11     7.24%      6.13    10.54%     7.16     14.38%     8.18     18.57%
EKO            Semey city          0.56     2.61%       1.12     6.51%      1.68    11.14%      2.23    16.32%     2.79    21.58%      3.35    27.15%     3.91     32.76%     4.47     38.15%
EKO            Shemonaiha          1.44     0.33%       2.87     1.41%      4.31     3.39%      5.75     6.17%     7.19     9.46%      8.62    13.44%     10.06    17.92%     11.50    22.68%
EKO            Ulan                0.88     0.43%       1.76     1.79%      2.65     4.16%      3.53     7.29%     4.41    10.87%      5.29    15.12%     6.18     19.80%     7.06     24.65%
EKO            Urzhar              0.92     0.36%       1.84     1.42%      2.76     3.27%      3.69     5.75%     4.61     8.63%      5.53    12.24%     6.45     16.47%     7.37     20.99%
EKO            Zyryan              1.47     0.21%       2.94     0.94%      4.41     2.26%      5.88     4.24%     7.35     6.73%      8.82     9.95%     10.29    13.79%     11.76    18.13%
Karaganda      Buharzhirau         0.59     0.83%       1.18     2.75%      1.77     5.72%      2.36     9.57%     2.95    13.89%      3.54    18.65%     4.13     23.74%     4.72     28.88%




                                                      - 316 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Karaganda      Karkaraly            0.60     0.47%       1.19     1.75%      1.79     3.85%      2.39     6.74%     2.99    10.16%     3.58     14.13%     4.18     18.57%     4.78     23.21%
Karaganda      Nura                 0.44     0.38%       0.87     1.60%      1.31     3.64%      1.74     6.57%     2.18    10.11%     2.61     14.35%     3.05     19.07%     3.48     24.01%
Karaganda      Osakarov             0.66     0.48%       1.33     1.88%      1.99     4.24%      2.66     7.50%     3.32    11.24%     3.99     15.53%     4.65     20.21%     5.32     25.13%
Karaganda      Shetski              0.53     0.30%       1.05     1.22%      1.58     2.92%      2.11     5.48%     2.63     8.56%     3.16     12.28%     3.69     16.59%     4.21     21.22%
Karaganda      Ulytau               0.58     0.33%       1.16     1.35%      1.74     3.13%      2.32     5.78%     2.90     8.92%     3.48     12.80%     4.06     17.22%     4.64     22.01%
Karaganda      Zhanaarka            0.48     0.24%       0.95     1.05%      1.43     2.67%      1.90     5.13%     2.38     8.03%     2.86     11.68%     3.33     15.91%     3.81     20.48%
Kostanay       Altynsarin           1.50     0.35%       2.99     1.38%      4.49     3.23%      5.98     5.96%     7.48     9.14%     8.97     12.98%     10.47    17.40%     11.97    22.14%
Kostanay       Amangedi             0.77     0.32%       1.55     1.33%      2.32     3.05%      3.10     5.52%     3.87     8.51%     4.64     12.16%     5.42     16.38%     6.19     20.97%
Kostanay       Arkalyk city         0.62     0.67%       1.23     2.46%      1.85     5.10%      2.47     8.58%     3.08    12.50%     3.70     17.02%     4.32     21.88%     4.93     26.86%
Kostanay       Auliykolski          0.82     0.43%       1.65     1.64%      2.47     3.64%      3.30     6.55%     4.12     9.96%     4.95     14.06%     5.77     18.62%     6.59     23.45%
Kostanay       Denisovski           1.20     0.86%       2.40     2.76%      3.61     5.59%      4.81     9.26%     6.01    13.35%     7.21     18.06%     8.41     23.06%     9.61     28.23%
Kostanay       Fedorovski           1.62     0.19%       3.24     0.89%      4.86     2.17%      6.49     4.16%     8.11     6.74%     9.73     10.12%     11.35    14.23%     12.97    18.94%
Kostanay       Kamisty              0.88     1.85%       1.76     4.88%      2.64     8.53%      3.53    12.84%     4.41    17.37%     5.29     22.24%     6.17     27.26%     7.05     32.25%
Kostanay       Karabalyk            1.45     0.31%       2.90     1.31%      4.35     3.10%      5.80     5.63%     7.25     8.72%     8.70     12.68%     10.15    17.27%     11.60    22.22%
Kostanay       Karasu               1.14     0.26%       2.28     1.15%      3.42     2.68%      4.56     4.93%     5.69     7.69%     6.83     11.15%     7.97     15.24%     9.11     19.77%
Kostanay       Uzunkolski           1.69     0.27%       3.38     1.11%      5.06     2.67%      6.75     4.98%     8.44     7.81%     10.13    11.41%     11.81    15.58%     13.50    20.18%
Kostanay       Zhetikara            0.85     0.76%       1.69     2.61%      2.54     5.30%      3.38     8.78%     4.23    12.79%     5.07     17.33%     5.92     22.20%     6.76     27.28%
Kostanay       Kostanay             1.67     0.22%       3.34     1.05%      5.01     2.55%      6.68     4.75%     8.36     7.47%     10.03    11.03%     11.70    15.20%     13.37    19.85%
Kostanay       Mendikara            1.73     0.17%       3.46     0.81%      5.19     1.95%      6.92     3.78%     8.65     6.07%     10.37     9.07%     12.10    12.73%     13.83    17.02%
Kostanay       Nauirzym             0.88     0.45%       1.76     1.72%      2.64     3.74%      3.52     6.63%     4.40    10.09%     5.29     14.16%     6.17     18.70%     7.05     23.52%
Kostanay       Rudnyi city          0.46     1.08%       0.92     3.17%      1.38     6.05%      1.84     9.66%     2.30    13.57%     2.76     17.94%     3.22     22.58%     3.68     27.32%
Kostanay       Sarykol              1.49     0.18%       2.99     0.77%      4.48     1.89%      5.97     3.66%     7.46     5.79%     8.96      8.59%     10.45    12.09%     11.94    16.21%
Kostanay       Taranovski           1.20     0.50%       2.40     1.84%      3.60     4.04%      4.80     7.19%     6.01    10.81%     7.21     15.18%     8.41     20.07%     9.61     25.24%
NKO            Airtau               1.55     0.24%       3.10     1.03%      4.64     2.40%      6.19     4.56%     7.74     7.24%     9.29     10.60%     10.84    14.62%     12.39    19.08%
NKO            Akkayn               1.66     0.19%       3.32     0.84%      4.97     2.12%      6.63     4.05%     8.29     6.46%     9.95      9.53%     11.61    13.28%     13.27    17.71%
NKO            Akzhar               1.37     0.18%       2.74     0.75%      4.11     1.74%      5.48     3.22%     6.84     4.93%     8.21      7.27%     9.58     10.21%     10.95    13.82%
NKO            Esil                 1.54     0.17%       3.09     0.77%      4.63     1.88%      6.18     3.62%     7.72     5.75%     9.26      8.53%     10.81    12.10%     12.35    16.35%
NKO            G.Musrepov           1.48     0.23%       2.96     1.01%      4.45     2.40%      5.93     4.48%     7.41     7.03%     8.89     10.27%     10.38    14.20%     11.86    18.64%
NKO            Kyzylzhar            1.71     0.16%       3.41     0.68%      5.12     1.56%      6.82     2.79%     8.53     4.09%     10.24     5.89%     11.94     9.43%     13.65    14.38%
NKO            M.Zhumabayev         1.52     0.16%       3.05     0.69%      4.57     1.60%      6.09     2.92%     7.61     4.45%     9.14      6.61%     10.66     9.41%     12.18    12.99%
NKO            Mamliut              1.60     0.17%       3.20     0.79%      4.79     2.01%      6.39     3.88%     7.99     6.16%     9.59      9.16%     11.18    13.03%     12.78    17.56%




                                                       - 317 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
NKO            Shalakin             1.47     0.17%       2.95     0.74%      4.42     1.80%      5.89     3.38%     7.37     5.36%      8.84     8.02%     10.31    11.40%     11.78    15.36%
NKO            Taiynsha             1.47     0.20%       2.94     0.88%      4.41     2.14%      5.89     4.03%     7.36     6.34%      8.83     9.42%     10.30    13.12%     11.77    17.36%
NKO            Timiryazev           1.49     0.19%       2.98     0.84%      4.47     2.12%      5.96     4.08%     7.45     6.58%      8.93     9.82%     10.42    13.75%     11.91    18.24%
NKO            Ualihanov            1.22     0.27%       2.45     1.15%      3.67     2.63%      4.89     4.86%     6.12     7.54%      7.34    10.86%     8.57     14.79%     9.79     19.17%
NKO            Zhambil              1.63     0.19%       3.27     0.82%      4.90     2.00%      6.53     3.85%     8.16     6.18%      9.80     9.27%     11.43    13.13%     13.06    17.60%
Pavlodar       Aktogaisky           0.58     0.68%       1.16     2.38%      1.73     4.94%      2.31     8.33%     2.89    12.11%      3.47    16.41%     4.05     20.99%     4.62     25.63%
Pavlodar       Ekibastuz city       0.91     0.65%       1.82     2.28%      2.72     4.73%      3.63     7.90%     4.54    11.37%      5.45    15.21%     6.36     19.28%     7.26     23.36%
Pavlodar       Irtyshski            0.70     0.36%       1.41     1.49%      2.11     3.39%      2.82     6.06%     3.52     9.19%      4.22    13.01%     4.93     17.36%     5.63     21.96%
Pavlodar       Kashyrski            0.87     0.54%       1.75     2.06%      2.62     4.43%      3.50     7.59%     4.37    11.18%      5.24    15.37%     6.12     19.88%     6.99     24.51%
Pavlodar       Shernaktinsky        0.75     0.56%       1.50     1.97%      2.24     4.04%      2.99     6.82%     3.74    10.03%      4.49    13.80%     5.24     17.91%     5.98     22.10%
Pavlodar       Uspenka area         0.77     1.59%       1.54     4.37%      2.31     8.00%      3.08    12.24%     3.85    16.68%      4.62    21.48%     5.39     26.39%     6.16     31.18%
Pavlodar       Zhelezninski         0.43     0.40%       0.87     1.64%      1.30     3.72%      1.73     6.56%     2.17     9.88%      2.60    13.90%     3.03     18.42%     3.47     23.13%




                                                       - 318 -
Table A7.3 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 70% and Guaranteed Yields Area Yield Index
Insurance for Spring Wheat produced by Agribusiness Enterprises in North Kazakhstan Region
                                                                                                          Coverage Level
                                          10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast              Rayon
                                  Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                   Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                  (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Akmola         Akkol               0.88     0.28%       1.77     1.25%      2.65     2.97%      3.54     5.45%     4.42     8.43%      5.31    12.18%     6.19     16.52%     7.08     21.23%
Akmola         Arshaly             0.95     0.18%       1.91     0.78%      2.86     1.82%      3.82     3.32%     4.77     5.11%      5.72     7.46%     6.68     10.36%     7.63     13.94%
Akmola         Astrashanski        0.76     0.19%       1.51     0.90%      2.27     2.11%      3.02     4.10%     3.78     6.57%      4.53     9.86%     5.29     13.90%     6.05     18.41%
Akmola         Atbasarski          0.92     0.19%       1.84     0.89%      2.77     2.16%      3.69     4.19%     4.61     6.71%      5.53     9.96%     6.45     13.94%     7.37     18.41%
Akmola         Bulandinski         1.04     0.19%       2.08     0.82%      3.12     1.94%      4.16     3.71%     5.20     5.93%      6.24     8.88%     7.28     12.60%     8.32     16.92%
Akmola         Celinogradski       0.70     0.17%       1.40     0.76%      2.10     1.86%      2.79     3.57%     3.49     5.73%      4.19     8.67%     4.89     12.28%     5.59     16.55%
Akmola         Enbekshilderski     1.21     0.23%       2.43     1.13%      3.64     2.77%      4.85     5.07%     6.07     7.80%      7.28    11.26%     8.50     15.37%     9.71     19.92%
Akmola         Esilski             0.79     0.18%       1.59     0.81%      2.38     1.99%      3.18     3.81%     3.97     6.10%      4.76     9.12%     5.56     12.87%     6.35     17.20%
Akmola         Korgalzhinski       0.58     0.17%       1.16     0.76%      1.74     1.90%      2.32     3.67%     2.90     5.91%      3.48     8.87%     4.06     12.55%     4.64     16.81%
Akmola         Sandiktauski        1.20     0.16%       2.39     0.70%      3.59     1.64%      4.78     3.12%     5.98     4.94%      7.18     7.43%     8.37     10.62%     9.57     14.56%
Akmola         Shortandinski       0.87     0.19%       1.75     0.88%      2.62     2.18%      3.49     4.16%     4.37     6.57%      5.24     9.80%     6.12     13.69%     6.99     18.10%
Akmola         Shuchenski          1.12     0.18%       2.24     0.75%      3.36     1.73%      4.48     3.28%     5.59     5.18%      6.71     7.73%     7.83     11.03%     8.95     15.00%
Akmola         Yegindikolski       0.72     0.18%       1.45     0.89%      2.17     2.18%      2.89     4.20%     3.61     6.72%      4.34     9.97%     5.06     13.94%     5.78     18.43%
Akmola         Zerendinski         1.41     0.17%       2.82     0.71%      4.23     1.68%      5.64     3.19%     7.05     5.13%      8.46     7.76%     9.87     11.09%     11.28    15.09%
Akmola         Zhaksi              1.18     0.16%       2.36     0.75%      3.54     1.88%      4.72     3.67%     5.90     5.88%      7.08     8.81%     8.26     12.44%     9.44     16.63%
Akmola         Zharkainski         0.86     0.18%       1.72     0.84%      2.59     2.07%      3.45     4.06%     4.31     6.52%      5.17     9.78%     6.04     13.75%     6.90     18.31%
Akmola         Erementauski        0.74     0.30%       1.49     1.47%      2.23     3.54%      2.97     6.38%     3.71     9.71%      4.46    13.63%     5.20     18.10%     5.94     22.89%
EKO            Beskaragay          0.60     1.95%       1.20     5.33%      1.80     9.43%      2.40    13.97%     3.01    18.66%      3.61    23.64%     4.21     28.61%     4.81     33.47%
EKO            Boroduliha          1.11     0.84%       2.22     2.37%      3.33     4.57%      4.44     7.41%     5.55    10.56%      6.65    14.27%     7.76     18.52%     8.87     23.03%
EKO            Glubokoe            1.37     0.55%       2.75     1.64%      4.12     3.39%      5.49     5.87%     6.86     8.81%      8.24    12.51%     9.61     16.80%     10.98    21.52%
EKO            Kokpekti            0.77     0.80%       1.54     2.10%      2.32     4.02%      3.09     6.53%     3.86     9.42%      4.63    12.89%     5.40     16.81%     6.18     21.05%
EKO            Semey city          1.58     0.47%       3.16     1.46%      4.74     3.07%      6.32     5.33%     7.89     8.05%      9.47    11.42%     11.05    15.36%     12.63    19.71%
EKO            Shemonaiha          1.18     3.62%       2.37     7.68%      3.55    12.29%      4.74    17.20%     5.92    22.12%      7.11    27.24%     8.29     32.36%     9.48     37.32%
EKO            Ulan                1.41     0.51%       2.83     1.48%      4.24     3.03%      5.65     5.19%     7.06     7.81%      8.48    11.06%     9.89     14.91%     11.30    19.27%
EKO            Urzhar              0.83     0.17%       1.66     0.72%      2.49     1.80%      3.33     3.54%     4.16     5.79%      4.99     8.72%     5.82     12.34%     6.65     16.55%
EKO            Zyryan              0.85     0.19%       1.70     0.88%      2.55     2.26%      3.39     4.38%     4.24     7.00%      5.09    10.29%     5.94     14.21%     6.79     18.73%
Karaganda      Buharzhirau         0.79     0.18%       1.58     0.82%      2.37     2.04%      3.16     3.92%     3.94     6.29%      4.73     9.29%     5.52     12.89%     6.31     17.06%
Karaganda      Karkaraly           0.62     0.25%       1.23     1.07%      1.85     2.66%      2.47     5.04%     3.08     7.95%      3.70    11.58%     4.32     15.79%     4.93     20.47%
Karaganda      Nura                1.33     0.18%       2.67     0.85%      4.00     2.08%      5.33     4.04%     6.67     6.50%      8.00     9.73%     9.33     13.58%     10.67    17.96%




                                                      - 319 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Karaganda      Osakarov             0.72     0.21%       1.45     0.99%      2.17     2.44%      2.89     4.59%     3.61     7.28%      4.34    10.69%     5.06     14.80%     5.78     19.39%
Karaganda      Shetski              0.92     0.18%       1.83     0.82%      2.75     2.06%      3.66     4.02%     4.58     6.49%      5.49     9.68%     6.41     13.59%     7.32     18.08%
Karaganda      Ulytau               0.99     0.23%       1.98     1.05%      2.97     2.55%      3.97     4.84%     4.96     7.67%      5.95    11.23%     6.94     15.40%     7.93     20.03%
Karaganda      Zhanaarka            1.19     0.18%       2.39     0.90%      3.58     2.24%      4.78     4.27%     5.97     6.78%      7.16    10.11%     8.36     14.12%     9.55     18.67%
Kostanay       Altynsarin           1.64     0.16%       3.29     0.73%      4.93     1.83%      6.57     3.50%     8.21     5.54%      9.86     8.37%     11.50    11.89%     13.14    16.02%
Kostanay       Amangedi             0.92     0.19%       1.84     0.89%      2.75     2.19%      3.67     4.16%     4.59     6.64%      5.51     9.87%     6.42     13.71%     7.34     18.02%
Kostanay       Arkalyk city         1.47     0.17%       2.94     0.76%      4.41     1.88%      5.89     3.56%     7.36     5.67%      8.83     8.52%     10.30    12.07%     11.77    16.25%
Kostanay       Auliykolski          1.08     0.21%       2.16     0.95%      3.24     2.27%      4.32     4.28%     5.40     6.81%      6.48    10.02%     7.56     13.85%     8.64     18.21%
Kostanay       Denisovski           1.40     0.16%       2.80     0.69%      4.20     1.69%      5.59     3.20%     6.99     5.00%      8.39     7.45%     9.79     10.54%     11.19    14.31%
Kostanay       Fedorovski           0.84     0.20%       1.68     0.92%      2.52     2.18%      3.36     4.15%     4.20     6.57%      5.04     9.82%     5.88     13.72%     6.72     18.12%
Kostanay       Kamisty              1.27     0.19%       2.54     0.81%      3.82     2.03%      5.09     3.95%     6.36     6.36%      7.63     9.49%     8.91     13.30%     10.18    17.64%
Kostanay       Karabalyk            1.40     0.16%       2.81     0.69%      4.21     1.68%      5.62     3.28%     7.02     5.25%      8.43     7.91%     9.83     11.32%     11.24    15.45%
Kostanay       Karasu               0.68     0.23%       1.36     1.03%      2.04     2.57%      2.71     4.84%     3.39     7.65%      4.07    11.21%     4.75     15.46%     5.43     20.15%
Kostanay       Uzunkolski           1.46     0.18%       2.92     0.77%      4.38     1.88%      5.84     3.49%     7.31     5.51%      8.77     8.27%     10.23    11.72%     11.69    15.76%
Kostanay       Zhetikara            1.13     0.18%       2.25     0.84%      3.38     2.11%      4.51     4.08%     5.64     6.59%      6.76     9.83%     7.89     13.78%     9.02     18.23%
Kostanay       Kostanay             1.32     0.16%       2.63     0.66%      3.95     1.51%      5.26     2.76%     6.58     4.23%      7.89     6.32%     9.21      9.07%     10.52    12.52%
Kostanay       Mendikara            1.44     0.16%       2.89     0.65%      4.33     1.46%      5.78     2.62%     7.22     3.92%      8.67     5.72%     10.11     8.15%     11.55    11.33%
Kostanay       Nauirzym             1.10     0.16%       2.20     0.70%      3.30     1.61%      4.40     2.92%     5.50     4.43%      6.60     6.52%     7.70      9.23%     8.80     12.62%
Kostanay       Rudnyi city          1.38     0.16%       2.75     0.67%      4.13     1.52%      5.50     2.72%     6.88     4.06%      8.26     5.88%     9.63      8.39%     11.01    11.58%
Kostanay       Sarykol              1.32     0.17%       2.63     0.72%      3.95     1.68%      5.27     3.13%     6.58     4.93%      7.90     7.36%     9.21     10.43%     10.53    14.12%
Kostanay       Taranovski           1.43     0.16%       2.86     0.65%      4.29     1.45%      5.72     2.53%     7.15     3.62%      8.58     4.94%     10.02     6.66%     11.45     9.21%
NKO            Airtau               1.37     0.16%       2.73     0.65%      4.10     1.46%      5.46     2.62%     6.83     3.89%      8.19     5.63%     9.56      7.97%     10.92    11.02%
NKO            Akkayn               1.37     0.16%       2.74     0.67%      4.11     1.53%      5.48     2.77%     6.84     4.17%      8.21     6.13%     9.58      8.78%     10.95    12.18%
NKO            Akzhar               1.29     0.18%       2.58     0.73%      3.87     1.73%      5.16     3.26%     6.46     5.10%      7.75     7.65%     9.04     10.95%     10.33    14.91%
NKO            Esil                 1.33     0.16%       2.65     0.68%      3.98     1.56%      5.31     2.83%     6.63     4.30%      7.96     6.34%     9.29      9.02%     10.62    12.37%
NKO            G.Musrepov           1.24     0.16%       2.47     0.67%      3.71     1.63%      4.94     3.04%     6.18     4.80%      7.41     7.26%     8.65     10.39%     9.89     14.15%
NKO            Kyzylzhar            1.13     0.18%       2.27     0.77%      3.40     1.81%      4.54     3.36%     5.67     5.21%      6.81     7.69%     7.94     10.90%     9.08     14.75%
NKO            M.Zhumabayev         1.16     0.16%       2.31     0.71%      3.47     1.69%      4.62     3.20%     5.78     5.01%      6.93     7.50%     8.09     10.66%     9.24     14.45%
NKO            Mamliut              0.52     0.24%       1.05     1.09%      1.57     2.62%      2.09     4.78%     2.62     7.26%      3.14    10.18%     3.66     13.46%     4.19     16.87%
NKO            Shalakin             0.67     0.18%       1.35     0.81%      2.02     1.97%      2.69     3.78%     3.37     5.89%      4.04     8.69%     4.72     12.15%     5.39     16.10%
NKO            Taiynsha             0.82     0.25%       1.63     1.17%      2.45     2.96%      3.26     5.68%     4.08     8.90%      4.89    12.94%     5.71     17.66%     6.52     22.75%




                                                       - 320 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
NKO            Timiryazev           0.76     0.28%       1.51     1.21%      2.27     2.77%      3.02     4.99%     3.78     7.46%      4.53    10.35%      5.29    13.48%      6.04    16.65%
NKO            Ualihanov            0.67     0.26%       1.35     1.16%      2.02     2.64%      2.69     4.72%     3.37     7.04%      4.04     9.80%      4.71    12.83%      5.39    15.92%
NKO            Zhambil              0.90     0.22%       1.80     1.04%      2.70     2.63%      3.60     5.09%     4.49     8.01%      5.39    11.76%      6.29    16.23%      7.19    21.16%
Pavlodar       Aktogaisky           0.88     0.28%       1.77     1.25%      2.65     2.97%      3.54     5.45%     4.42     8.43%      5.31    12.18%      6.19    16.52%      7.08    21.23%
Pavlodar       Ekibastuz city       0.95     0.18%       1.91     0.78%      2.86     1.82%      3.82     3.32%     4.77     5.11%      5.72     7.46%      6.68    10.36%      7.63    13.94%
Pavlodar       Irtyshski            0.76     0.19%       1.51     0.90%      2.27     2.11%      3.02     4.10%     3.78     6.57%      4.53     9.86%      5.29    13.90%      6.05    18.41%
Pavlodar       Kashyrski            0.92     0.19%       1.84     0.89%      2.77     2.16%      3.69     4.19%     4.61     6.71%      5.53     9.96%      6.45    13.94%      7.37    18.41%
Pavlodar       Shernaktinsky        1.04     0.19%       2.08     0.82%      3.12     1.94%      4.16     3.71%     5.20     5.93%      6.24     8.88%      7.28    12.60%      8.32    16.92%
Pavlodar       Uspenka area         0.70     0.17%       1.40     0.76%      2.10     1.86%      2.79     3.57%     3.49     5.73%      4.19     8.67%      4.89    12.28%      5.59    16.55%
Pavlodar       Zhelezninski         1.21     0.23%       2.43     1.13%      3.64     2.77%      4.85     5.07%     6.07     7.80%      7.28    11.26%      8.50    15.37%      9.71    19.92%




                                                       - 321 -
Table A7.4 Estimated Commercial Premium Rates for target loss ratios equal to 70% and Guaranteed Yields Area Yield Index
Insurance for Spring Wheat produced by Commercial Farmers and Agribusiness Enterprises in North Kazakhstan Region
                                                                                                          Coverage Level
                                          10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast              Rayon
                                  Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                   Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                  (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Akmola         Akkol               0.87     0.32%       1.73     1.40%      2.60     3.28%      3.46     5.94%     4.33     9.09%      5.20    12.98%     6.06     17.42%     6.93     22.19%
Akmola         Arshaly             0.99     0.22%       1.98     0.95%      2.97     2.22%      3.97     4.08%     4.96     6.29%      5.95     9.11%     6.94     12.52%     7.93     16.51%
Akmola         Astrashanski        0.70     0.30%       1.40     1.28%      2.09     2.90%      2.79     5.34%     3.49     8.30%      4.19    12.02%     4.89     16.38%     5.58     21.10%
Akmola         Atbasarski          0.92     0.22%       1.85     1.03%      2.77     2.45%      3.69     4.65%     4.61     7.34%      5.54    10.75%     6.46     14.86%     7.38     19.42%
Akmola         Bulandinski         1.04     0.20%       2.09     0.87%      3.13     2.06%      4.18     3.93%     5.22     6.24%      6.27     9.29%     7.31     13.10%     8.36     17.47%
Akmola         Celinogradski       0.71     0.22%       1.41     0.99%      2.12     2.32%      2.82     4.30%     3.53     6.76%      4.24     9.95%     4.94     13.77%     5.65     18.18%
Akmola         Enbekshilderski     1.19     0.26%       2.38     1.21%      3.56     2.95%      4.75     5.38%     5.94     8.24%      7.13    11.82%     8.32     16.01%     9.51     20.61%
Akmola         Esilski             0.79     0.25%       1.57     1.07%      2.36     2.51%      3.15     4.64%     3.93     7.24%      4.72    10.54%     5.51     14.53%     6.29     19.01%
Akmola         Korgalzhinski       0.56     0.21%       1.12     0.92%      1.68     2.23%      2.24     4.22%     2.80     6.68%      3.36     9.85%     3.92     13.70%     4.48     18.07%
Akmola         Sandiktauski        1.17     0.21%       2.34     0.84%      3.52     1.97%      4.69     3.69%     5.86     5.78%      7.03     8.51%     8.21     11.93%     9.38     16.01%
Akmola         Shortandinski       0.87     0.21%       1.75     0.94%      2.62     2.30%      3.50     4.35%     4.37     6.84%      5.25    10.14%     6.12     14.09%     7.00     18.55%
Akmola         Shuchenski          1.12     0.19%       2.25     0.80%      3.37     1.86%      4.49     3.50%     5.62     5.52%      6.74     8.21%     7.86     11.64%     8.99     15.70%
Akmola         Yegindikolski       0.68     0.30%       1.36     1.28%      2.03     2.97%      2.71     5.45%     3.39     8.42%      4.07    12.08%     4.74     16.38%     5.42     21.09%
Akmola         Zerendinski         1.36     0.19%       2.72     0.79%      4.08     1.88%      5.43     3.58%     6.79     5.72%      8.15     8.56%     9.51     12.08%     10.87    16.20%
Akmola         Zhaksi              1.17     0.21%       2.34     0.96%      3.50     2.31%      4.67     4.35%     5.84     6.85%      7.01    10.70%     8.17     13.95%     9.34     18.69%
Akmola         Zharkainski         0.81     0.22%       1.62     1.00%      2.42     2.40%      3.23     4.57%     4.04     7.24%      4.85    10.70%     5.65     14.82%     6.46     19.45%
Akmola         Erementauski        0.77     0.52%       1.53     2.05%      2.30     4.48%      3.06     7.67%     3.83    11.32%      4.59    15.50%     5.36     20.16%     6.12     25.04%
EKO            Beskaragay          0.58     1.64%       1.16     4.74%      1.74     8.66%      2.32    13.20%     2.90    18.06%      3.48    23.24%     4.06     28.51%     4.64     33.69%
EKO            Boroduliha          0.96     0.83%       1.91     2.67%      2.87     5.36%      3.82     8.78%     4.78    12.52%      5.74    16.80%     6.69     21.50%     7.65     26.31%
EKO            Glubokoe            1.42     0.43%       2.83     1.48%      4.25     3.26%      5.66     5.72%     7.08     8.67%      8.50    12.37%     9.91     16.68%     11.33    21.40%
EKO            Kokpekti            0.90     0.47%       1.79     1.49%      2.69     3.16%      3.58     5.46%     4.48     8.18%      5.38    11.56%     6.27     15.44%     7.17     19.64%
EKO            Semey city          0.56     2.61%       1.12     6.51%      1.68    11.14%      2.23    16.32%     2.79    21.58%      3.35    27.15%     3.91     32.76%     4.47     38.15%
EKO            Shemonaiha          1.52     0.42%       3.05     1.44%      4.57     3.19%      6.10     5.63%     7.62     8.56%      9.15    12.15%     10.67    16.28%     12.20    20.78%
EKO            Ulan                0.98     1.68%       1.96     4.10%      2.94     7.34%      3.92    11.17%     4.90    15.27%      5.88    19.87%     6.86     24.72%     7.84     29.61%
EKO            Urzhar              0.92     0.36%       1.84     1.42%      2.76     3.27%      3.69     5.75%     4.61     8.63%      5.53    12.24%     6.45     16.47%     7.37     20.99%
EKO            Zyryan              1.43     0.41%       2.86     1.30%      4.29     2.77%      5.72     4.88%     7.16     7.45%      8.59    10.69%     10.02    14.54%     11.45    18.89%
Karaganda      Buharzhirau         0.70     0.48%       1.39     1.69%      2.09     3.66%      2.79     6.40%     3.48     9.63%      4.18    13.43%     4.87     17.75%     5.57     22.41%
Karaganda      Karkaraly           0.60     0.47%       1.19     1.75%      1.79     3.85%      2.39     6.74%     2.99    10.16%      3.58    14.13%     4.18     18.57%     4.78     23.21%
Karaganda      Nura                0.72     0.23%       1.43     1.02%      2.15     2.53%      2.87     4.80%     3.59     7.60%      4.30    11.07%     5.02     15.15%     5.74     19.75%




                                                      - 322 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
Karaganda      Osakarov             0.72     0.34%       1.44     1.38%      2.15     3.20%      2.87     5.81%     3.59     8.90%      4.31    12.58%     5.03     16.75%     5.74     21.31%
Karaganda      Shetski              0.53     0.30%       1.05     1.22%      1.58     2.92%      2.11     5.48%     2.63     8.56%      3.16    12.28%     3.69     16.59%     4.21     21.22%
Karaganda      Ulytau               0.60     0.30%       1.19     1.22%      1.79     2.92%      2.39     5.44%     2.98     8.48%      3.58    12.25%     4.17     16.57%     4.77     21.31%
Karaganda      Zhanaarka            0.48     0.24%       0.95     1.05%      1.43     2.67%      1.90     5.13%     2.38     8.03%      2.86    11.68%     3.33     15.91%     3.81     20.48%
Kostanay       Altynsarin           1.37     0.22%       2.74     0.98%      4.11     2.35%      5.48     4.50%     6.84     7.14%      8.21    10.51%     9.58     14.49%     10.95    18.96%
Kostanay       Amangedi             0.75     0.27%       1.50     1.19%      2.26     2.80%      3.01     5.14%     3.76     8.01%      4.51    11.56%     5.27     15.73%     6.02     20.32%
Kostanay       Arkalyk city         0.80     0.33%       1.60     1.31%      2.40     2.96%      3.20     5.38%     4.00     8.27%      4.80    11.86%     5.60     16.05%     6.40     20.69%
Kostanay       Auliykolski          0.95     0.28%       1.89     1.19%      2.84     2.80%      3.79     5.24%     4.73     8.20%      5.68    11.89%     6.63     16.15%     7.57     20.82%
Kostanay       Denisovski           1.20     0.29%       2.39     1.20%      3.59     2.79%      4.78     5.09%     5.98     7.86%      7.17    11.42%     8.37     15.59%     9.56     20.24%
Kostanay       Fedorovski           1.63     0.18%       3.27     0.80%      4.90     1.98%      6.53     3.79%     8.17     6.07%      9.80     9.14%     11.43    12.92%     13.07    17.30%
Kostanay       Kamisty              0.91     0.48%       1.82     1.58%      2.73     3.29%      3.64     5.67%     4.56     8.51%      5.47    12.02%     6.38     16.07%     7.29     20.50%
Kostanay       Karabalyk            1.47     0.20%       2.93     0.88%      4.40     2.14%      5.87     4.00%     7.33     6.31%      8.80     9.39%     10.27    13.17%     11.74    17.50%
Kostanay       Karasu               1.10     0.23%       2.20     1.01%      3.30     2.40%      4.39     4.49%     5.49     7.10%      6.59    10.39%     7.69     14.30%     8.79     18.72%
Kostanay       Uzunkolski           1.47     0.19%       2.93     0.81%      4.40     1.95%      5.87     3.68%     7.33     5.76%      8.80     8.52%     10.26    11.90%     11.73    15.89%
Kostanay       Zhetikara            0.84     0.29%       1.68     1.20%      2.52     2.69%      3.36     4.90%     4.20     7.58%      5.04    11.04%     5.88     15.10%     6.72     19.61%
Kostanay       Kostanay             1.49     0.21%       2.97     0.96%      4.46     2.34%      5.94     4.44%     7.43     7.03%      8.92    10.42%     10.40    14.45%     11.89    18.97%
Kostanay       Mendikara            1.52     0.17%       3.04     0.74%      4.56     1.79%      6.08     3.48%     7.60     5.58%      9.12     8.38%     10.64    11.89%     12.16    16.09%
Kostanay       Nauirzym             0.79     0.37%       1.59     1.46%      2.38     3.31%      3.18     5.98%     3.97     9.19%      4.77    13.08%     5.56     17.51%     6.35     22.28%
Kostanay       Rudnyi city          0.46     1.08%       0.92     3.17%      1.38     6.05%      1.84     9.66%     2.30    13.57%      2.76    17.94%     3.22     22.58%     3.68     27.32%
Kostanay       Sarykol              1.47     0.18%       2.95     0.77%      4.42     1.88%      5.89     3.55%     7.36     5.62%      8.84     8.39%     10.31    11.85%     11.78    15.92%
Kostanay       Taranovski           1.15     0.30%       2.30     1.19%      3.46     2.78%      4.61     5.15%     5.76     8.05%      6.91    11.68%     8.06     15.95%     9.21     20.65%
NKO            Airtau               1.36     0.18%       2.71     0.73%      4.07     1.69%      5.43     3.12%     6.78     4.84%      8.14     7.18%     9.49     10.19%     10.85    13.85%
NKO            Akkayn               1.49     0.17%       2.99     0.70%      4.48     1.63%      5.98     2.99%     7.47     4.58%      8.97     6.71%     10.46     9.49%     11.95    12.98%
NKO            Akzhar               1.19     0.17%       2.38     0.72%      3.57     1.66%      4.77     3.04%     5.96     4.63%      7.15     6.81%     8.34      9.61%     9.53     13.09%
NKO            Esil                 1.40     0.16%       2.80     0.68%      4.20     1.58%      5.60     2.86%     7.00     4.33%      8.40     6.30%     9.80      8.97%     11.20    12.33%
NKO            G.Musrepov           1.34     0.18%       2.69     0.77%      4.03     1.82%      5.38     3.38%     6.72     5.32%      8.07     7.90%     9.41     11.13%     10.75    14.95%
NKO            Kyzylzhar            1.51     0.16%       3.01     0.66%      4.52     1.48%      6.02     2.61%     7.53     3.76%      9.04     5.23%     10.54     7.52%     12.05    10.81%
NKO            M.Zhumabayev         1.42     0.16%       2.85     0.67%      4.27     1.51%      5.70     2.74%     7.12     4.12%      8.55     6.02%     9.97      8.55%     11.40    11.81%
NKO            Mamliut              1.42     0.16%       2.85     0.70%      4.27     1.66%      5.69     3.07%     7.12     4.70%      8.54     6.93%     9.96      9.92%     11.39    13.62%
NKO            Shalakin             1.33     0.18%       2.66     0.74%      4.00     1.75%      5.33     3.29%     6.66     5.17%      7.99     7.74%     9.32     11.06%     10.66    15.02%
NKO            Taiynsha             1.35     0.17%       2.70     0.72%      4.05     1.67%      5.41     3.05%     6.76     4.67%      8.11     6.90%     9.46      9.77%     10.81    13.29%




                                                       - 323 -
                                                                                                           Coverage Level
                                           10%                  20%                 30%                 40%                50 %                60%                 70%                 80%
      Oblast               Rayon
                                   Insured     Coml.    Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured    Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.   Insured     Coml.
                                    Yield      Rate      Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate    Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate     Yield      Rate
                                   (ctr/he) (% TSI)     (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)   (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)    (ctr/he) (% TSI)
NKO            Timiryazev           1.35     0.18%       2.70     0.76%      4.05     1.87%      5.40     3.56%     6.75     5.69%      8.10     8.54%      9.45    12.07%     10.81    16.19%
NKO            Ualihanov            1.15     0.19%       2.30     0.83%      3.44     1.93%      4.59     3.59%     5.74     5.56%      6.89     8.18%      8.03    11.49%     9.18     15.42%
NKO            Zhambil              1.32     0.17%       2.63     0.75%      3.95     1.82%      5.26     3.47%     6.58     5.50%      7.89     8.24%      9.21    11.69%     10.53    15.76%
Pavlodar       Aktogaisky           0.58     0.68%       1.16     2.38%      1.73     4.94%      2.31     8.33%     2.89    12.11%      3.47    16.41%      4.05    20.99%     4.62     25.63%
Pavlodar       Ekibastuz city       0.74     0.52%       1.47     1.91%      2.21     4.06%      2.95     6.91%     3.68    10.07%      4.42    13.62%      5.16    17.44%     5.89     21.31%
Pavlodar       Irtyshski            0.69     0.29%       1.38     1.24%      2.08     2.86%      2.77     5.21%     3.46     7.96%      4.15    11.40%      4.85    15.42%     5.54     19.77%
Pavlodar       Kashyrski            0.85     0.44%       1.71     1.76%      2.56     3.94%      3.41     6.94%     4.27    10.41%      5.12    14.55%      5.97    19.13%     6.83     23.92%
Pavlodar       Shernaktinsky        0.75     0.34%       1.51     1.36%      2.26     3.03%      3.02     5.36%     3.77     7.98%      4.52    11.05%      5.28    14.38%     6.03     17.75%
Pavlodar       Uspenka area         0.72     0.88%       1.43     2.65%      2.15     5.13%      2.86     8.21%     3.58    11.52%      4.29    15.22%      5.01    19.12%     5.72     23.00%
Pavlodar       Zhelezninski         0.61     0.30%       1.23     1.30%      1.84     3.10%      2.46     5.73%     3.07     8.82%      3.68    12.69%      4.30    17.18%     4.91     22.01%




                                                       - 324 -
      Annex 8: Weather Index Insurance Opportunities in Kazakhstan


1.       This annex provides an overview of general features Weather Index Insurance (WII).
In the following Appendixes some contract prototypes for addressing drought risk in spring wheat
production in the North of Kazakhstan are presented. The contract structures illustrated are
indicative and further research and design work would be required to develop the actual
marketable products.



Features of Weather Index Insurance108

2.      The essential feature of weather index-based insurance (WII) is that the insurance
contract responds to an objective parameter (e.g., measurement of rainfall or temperature) at a
defined weather station during an agreed-upon time period. The parameters of the contract are
set so as to correlate, as accurately as possible, with the loss of a specific crop type suffered by
the policyholder. All policyholders within a defined area receive payouts based on the same
contract and measurement at the same station, eliminating the need for field loss assessment.
3.       WII is best suited to weather hazards that are well-correlated over a widespread area
and where there is a close correlation between weather and crop yield. The strongest
relationships typically involve a single crop, a marked rainy season, and no irrigation. To date,
most WII efforts have focused on the risk of rainfall deficit (drought). All these conditions apply
to the case of spring wheat production in the North of Kazakhstan.
4.      WII is less useful where more complex conditions exist. Localized risks, such as hail,
or where microclimates exist (for example, in mountainous areas) are not suitable for WII.
Similarly, the scope for WII is limited where crop production is impacted by many or complex
causes of loss (as may be the case in humid subtropics) or where pest and disease are major
influences on yields. For a given environment, other insurance products may be more appropriate
(such as AYII or named-peril crop insurance).
5.      Introducing WII to an area requires willing stakeholders: insurers, national weather
services, and linkages for distribution and support, including financial service providers, agri-
chain participants, and government, which provides the regulatory environment. WII is best
introduced using market-based principles and business practices, but often with an important
developmental and social agenda. As such, private and public sector partnerships are common.
There are many opportunities for technical and organizational innovation in WII.
6.     The strengths and weaknesses of WII are well documented in the literature.109 Box
A8.1 provides a summary of the main advantages and disadvantages of WII.




108
    Sections 2 to 17 have been adapted from Weather Index-based Insurance in Agricultural Development:
A Technical Guide, IFAD, Rome, 2011
109
    Among others see IFAD, WFP (2010); World Bank (2005); and USAID (2006).


                                               - 325 -
Box A8.1: Advantages and Disadvantages of Weather Index Insurance

                                             Advantages
   Transparency: index insurance contracts allow the policyholder direct access to the
    information on which the payouts will be calculated. Trust is strengthened by transparency.
   No on-farm loss adjustment: This is a primary advantage of index insurance, as on-farm
    loss adjustment is quite complex and costly, and it may not be credible in many low-income
    countries.
   Lack of adverse selection: Adverse selection occurs when potential insured parties have
    hidden information about their risk exposure that is not available to the insurer, who then
    becomes more likely to erroneously assess the risk of the insured. Traditional insurance
    encourages high-risk producers to insure, whereas risk (and premium) is calculated on the
    average producer. Index insurance requires that all insured farmers within the defined area
    have the same insurance payout conditions, regardless of their specific risk exposure. Hence,
    insurers and clients benefit from reduced adverse selection.
   Lack of moral hazard: Moral hazard occurs when individuals engage in hidden activities
    that increase their exposure to risk as a result of purchasing insurance, or attempt to influence
    the claims outcome. These hidden activities can leave the insurer exposed to higher levels of
    risk than had been anticipated when premium rates were established. With WII, there is no
    benefit in individual producers trying to influence claims. All producers in the defined area
    are treated equally.
   Addresses correlated risks: Index products work best where there are correlated risks. Perils
    such as drought are challenging to insure under traditional products.
   Low operational and transaction costs: Index insurance requires limited individual
    underwriting (client assessment). It can be distributed, and claims can be settled, at relatively
    lower cost. Education in the product remains important, both prior to product launch and
    ongoing.
   Rapid payout: Measurement of weather station data, with no field loss adjustment, allows
    rapid payouts to be made.

                                          Disadvantages
   Basis Risk: Basis risk in WII is a key constraint. Basis risk is the difference between the loss
    experienced by the farmer and the payout triggered. It could result in a farmer experiencing
    yield loss, but not receiving a payout or also in a payout being triggered without any loss
    being experienced. Index insurance works best where losses are homogenous in the defined
    area, and highly correlated with the indexed peril. Basis risk can arise from:
    o   Spatial basis risk: Local variations in the peril occurrence (e.g., rainfall) within the area
        surrounding a weather station.
    o   Temporal basis risk: Inter-annual variations in seasonal crop phases, meaning that the
        insurance phases are not aligned in time with the intended crop growth stage.
    o   Product basis risk: Crop losses can be caused by many factors. Where there is not a
        clear-cut relationship between loss and the indexed weather peril, basis risk can be high.
        WII is most likely to work for rainfed crops, and at severe levels of the event, when
        losses may be more widespread and homogenous.




                                               - 326 -
     Limited perils: WII normally only covers one, and sometimes two, weather perils. Although
      reducing cost compared to MPCI, the product may not provide broad enough coverage to
      satisfy risk management needs.
     Replication: The triggers, limits, and increments of a specific product need to be adjusted to
      reflect the weather parameters of each weather station. Different product designs are required
      for different crop types (or at least generic crop types). WII requires considerable technical
      work to implement and be sustained.
     Technical capacity and expertise is required, particularly during the initial design phase for
      new products, in agro-meteorology and in operationalizing the products.
     Lack of weather data: WII depends on the availability and quality of weather data, which
      can drastically vary from country to country. In developing countries, the shortage of
      historical and real-time weather data is often a major hurdle.



Levels of implementation of WII and International Experience

7.       WII can be introduced at different levels. There are different implementation models
that can be used to benefit the desired target group and classification is usually carried out
according to who the actual policyholder is. At the micro level, the policyholders (the insurer‘s
customer) are farmers, households, or small business owners who purchase insurance to protect
themselves from potential losses caused by adverse weather events. Micro policies can also be
distributed to farmers by organizations such as financial service providers, farmer associations,
input suppliers, processors, or NGOs.110 In addition to having wider outreach to the target group
than most insurers, these intermediaries also have vested social or commercial interests in
protecting themselves and their smallholder clients against the weather risk. For example,
insuring the farmers can help financial service providers, input suppliers, and other intermediaries
manage their risks of default by farmers. This in turn can help to unlock development
opportunities for poor smallholders, such as access to credit, or higher quality inputs. At the meso
level, the above mentioned organizations can act as the policyholder. At this level, WII can be
structured through a policy issued to the organization, but with payout rules which could either
directly or indirectly benefit farmers– for example to alleviate mass loan defaults in a
microfinance institution (MFI). Finally, index insurance can also be sold at the macro level, to
aid governments and relief agencies in development and disaster management.
8.       The majority of WII experience has been with micro-level applications and rainfall
deficit (drought). To date, many initiatives have been piloted, but only in India has a market-
based scale-up of WII taken place. Table 8A.1 provides a synoptic summary of the countries in
which WII has been piloted.




110
   Intermediaries may be subject to regulatory approval, and the potential regulatory implication of such a
scheme should be carefully assessed.


                                                  - 327 -
Table A8.1. International Experience with Weather Index Insurance at Different Levels of
Aggregation

Micro level       Weather-indexed insurance for smallholder farmers:
                  Examples: India, Nicaragua, Malawi, Ukraine, Thailand, Ethiopia, Kenya,
                  Ghana, The Philippines, China.
                  Over 30 projects in about 25 countries. Scale-up only in India

Meso level        Weather-indexed portfolio hedge for rural financial institutions that lend to
                  poor farmers
                  Examples: Peru, Ghana, Vietnam (under development)
                  Programs are too new to assess scale-up and sustainability

Macro level       Weather insurance or weather-indexed contingent credit line for governments
                  or international organizations
                   Examples: Ethiopia, Malawi, Mexico (both AYII and WII), Caribbean States
                  (CCRIF) risk pool for hurricanes & earthquake)
                  Mexico has achieved major scale-up across most states in the past decade.
                  CCRIF is insuring 16 Caribbean states
Source: Dick, W. (2009)




Availability of Weather Data and Infrastructure

9.      WII relies on historical and current weather data. Historical data is used as the basis for
data analysis in product design and product pricing. Current data—as measured by local weather
stations—provides the information needed in the operational phase. Unfortunately, both historical
and current data are not always plentiful. The completeness of the historical dataset is highly
variable for different areas, particularly for daily data, which is needed for index design.
Likewise, the density of weather stations forming the national network (which could include
WMO reporting stations, national core stations, and localized rain gauges) varies considerably
from country to country. During operation, network density will likely need to be enhanced
through installation of automatic weather stations, with dataloggers and daily reporting to
headquarters via telecommunication networks. Where there is no previous station data,
methodology to generate artificial datasets for new station locations can sometimes be used.
10.     The National Meteorological Service (NMS) supervises data and related information
on past and present weather recording. NMS can normally provide a summary of data
availability and history, of current and past networks, and the terms under which access to the
data may be permitted. Obtaining this information may involve fees, as many NMS are required
to generate income. The active involvement of NMS in any ongoing project is critical not only for
access to data and knowledge on weather patterns and risks, but also for capacity building
(especially in relation to agro-meteorology). Agricultural research stations may also have
analysed meteorological data and be well-informed.
11.    The data used to construct the underlying weather indices should adhere to quality
requirements, including:




                                             - 328 -
   Reliable and trustworthy on-going daily collection and reporting procedures
   Periodic checks and quality control
   Independent source of data for verification (e.g., surrounding weather stations, WMO Global
    Telecommunication Network).
Areas without access to weather data that satisfy the above criteria or areas with poor spatial
coverage may not able to benefit from weather risk management products, and another pilot zone
should be considered.
12.     The following list provides general criteria for weather data requirements for WII
applications:111
     At least 20 years of historic weather data
     Limited missing values and out-of-range values (preferably less than 3 per cent missing data
      from the entire historical data set)
     Availability of a nearby station for fall-back verification purposes
     Consistency of observation techniques: manual versus automated
     Limited changes of instrumentation / orientation / configuration
     Integrity of weather data recording procedure
     Little potential for measurement tampering


13.      Beyond the quality of data, it is critical to define the boundaries of the area(s) covered
by the weather station(s) so that WII contracts can be written for specific areas tied to a
specific station. A general rule of thumb is to consider a specific WII contract marketable within
a 20 km radius of the weather station; but the applicable area may be smaller or larger and case-
specific evaluation must be carried out. In general terms, the more the terrain varies, the more the
acceptable distance from a station decreases.




Availability of Agricultural Data and Information
14.    Official statistics on crop loss or damage, information on food or cash crop loss, and
risk mapping (e.g., food security agency mapping, such as Fewsnet) are all contributors to an
understanding the spatial distribution of weather risk. Assessment of weather risk involves a
mix of data, wide information sources, expert opinion on agronomic practices, and agro-
meteorology.
15.     Agricultural information is the second part of the WII contract design equation. The
most relevant information to be collected is data on productivity (yield), but a clear description of
the agricultural production practices carried out in the areas of interest is also necessary.
Unfortunately, the availability of quality yield data series of adequate length and at the
appropriate level of disaggregation is not common. However, lack of quality yield data does not
pose as large a problem as lack of good weather data, since it is still possible to find alternative

111
   Adapted from ISMEA, but originally presented by Brian Tobben at the Annual Meeting of the
International Task Force on Commodity Risk Management, jointly sponsored by the FAO and the
World Bank at the FAO, Rome, 5 and 6 May, 2004.




                                              - 329 -
approaches to estimating yield variability. One possibility is to simulate synthetic yield data series
through plant-growth models.
16.      Whether data on productivity is collected by official sources or generated by a crop
model, it is still necessary to collect specific information from potential WII end users on local
cultivating practices and procedures. Information such as crop varieties adopted, planting
periods, modalities used (e.g., dry planting), management practices and related costs, risk profiles,
historical recollection of the impact of the peril, and the most sensitive phases in crop life are
essential for designing a meaningful WII contract.

WII Contract Design
17.     The objective of contract design is to define a structure that effectively captures the
relationship between the weather variable and the potential crop loss and to select the index
that is most effective in providing payouts when losses are experienced, reducing basis risk as
much as possible. The set of possible index combinations is unlimited, and numerous structures
have been developed in the relatively short history of WII. One of the most commonly adopted
structures is that of a continuous payout triggered and limited by a cumulative measure of the
weather variable (e.g., rainfall) for each of the different crop growth stages
    Box A8.2: Payout Parameters in a WII Contract (Example)
Using the drought coverage case represented in Figure A8.1 as an example, the parameters that
characterize an incremental payout structure can be defined as follows:
     Trigger: Threshold above or below which payouts are due. Payments are due when the
      calculated value of the index is below the trigger level (300mm).
     Exit: Threshold above or below which no additional incremental payout will be applied. The
      maximum payout is paid if the calculated value of the index is equal to or below the exit
      threshold (100mm).
     Tick: Incremental payout value per unit deviation increase from the trigger. With a maximum
      payout (the insured sum) of $200, a trigger of 300mm, and an exit of 100 mm, the monetary
      value of each deficit mm of rainfall below the trigger is: $200 /(300 mm-100 mm) or $1 per
      mm.




                                               - 330 -
Figure A8.1: Payout Structure of a WII Drought Contract
             250




                                  Exit: 100mm
             200




             150
Payout ($)




             100




             50

                                                                        Trigger: 300mm

              0
                   1   51   101        151       201       251    301       351     401

                                       Cumulated rainfall (mm)




                                                        - 331 -
Annex 8 - Appendix A
 Map 5.2: Selected Weather Stations and Wheat        Map 5.3: Selected Weather Stations and Wheat
 Production Rayons in Kostanay Oblast                Production Rayons in Akmola Oblast




  Map 5.4: Selected Weather Stations and Wheat
  Production Rayons in Pavlodar Oblast




Source: Authors‘ elaborations on Google Earth




                                                - 332 -
     Annex 8 - Appendix B.
     List of KHM Meteorological Stations in selected Oblasts


                                                                                     Type of observations




                                                                Meteorological
№




                                                                                                       Soil humidity
          Rayon                          Year of      Type of




                                                                                     Actinometry




                                                                                                                           Evaporation
                          Name of        installat   manageme
                         settlement        ions         nt
                                                     Manual/A
                                                     utomatic

                                              NKO
1    Zhambylsky       Blagoveschenka       1936            m             +                                             +
2    Zhumabayeva      Bulayevo             1930            m             +                                             +
3                     Vozvyshenka          1931            m             +                                             +
4    Aiyrtausky       Saumalkol            1914            m             +                                             +
5    Ualikanovsky     Kishkenekol          1954            m             +
6    Taiynshinsky     Chkalovo             1955            m             +                                             +
7                     Taiynsha             1925            m             +                                             +
8    Petropavlovsk    Petropavlovsk        1890            m             +
     city
9    Musrepova        Rusaevka            1935             m             +                                             +
10   Timirayzevsky    Timirayzevo         1955             m             +                                             +
11   Shal Akyn        Sergeevka           1968             m             +                                             +
12   Esilsky          Yavlenka            1902             m             +                                             +
13   Mamlutsky        Mamlutka            2009             m             +
14   Akkainsky        Smirnovo            2009             m             +
                                         Kostanay oblast
1    Amangeldinsky    Amangeldy           1935             m                     +
2    Arkalyksky       Arkalyk             1958             m                     +
3                     Ekidyn              1959             m                     +
4    Denisovsky       Arshalinsky         1956             m                     +                                     +
5    Kamystinsky      Bestau              1960             m                     +
6    Zhitikarinsky    Dzhetigara          1935             m                     +                                         +
7    Auliekolsky      Dievskaya           1957             m                     +                                     +
8                     Kushmurun           1940             m                     +                                         +
9    Naurzumsky       Dokuchaevka         1934             m                     +
10   Karasusky        Zheleznodorozhny    1960             m                     +                                     +
11                    Karasu              1937             m                     +                                     +
12   Karabalyksky     Komsomolets         1930             m                     +                                     +
13   Kostanaysky      Kostanay            1962             m                     +                                     +
14                    Rudnay              1960             m                     +                 +
15   Mendykarinsky    Mikhailovka         1958             m                     +                                     +
16   Uzunkolsky       Presnogorkovka      1955             m                     +                                     +
17   Taranovsky       Tobol               1950             m                     +                                     +
18   Dzhangeldinsky   Torgay              1974             m                     +
19   Sarykolsky       Uritsky             1924             m                     +                                     +
                                         Pavlodar oblast
1    Aktogaysky       Zholboldy           1956             m                     +                                     +
2                     Aktogay             1960             m                     +                                     +



                                              - 333 -
3    Zhelezinsky        Mikhailovka       1907           m   +       +
4    Irtyshsky          Golubovka         1949           m   +       +
5                       Ertis             1935           m   +           +
6    Kashirsky          Fedorovskaya      1956           m   +       +
7    Pavlodarsky        Krasnoarmeika     1963           m   +       +
8    Uspensky           Lozovaya          1954           m   +       +
9                       Uspenka           1958           m           +
10   Sharbaktinsky      Sharbakty         1932           m   +       +
11                      Shalday           1957           m   +
12   Bayanaulsky        Bayanaul          1925           m   +           +
13   Maisky             Koktobe           1970           m   +
14   Ekibastuz town     Ekibastuz         1949           m   +
15   Aksusky            Akzhol            1961           m   +
16   Pavlodar city      Pavlodar          1891           m   +
                                         Akmola oblast
1    Ereimentausky      Ereimentau        1954           m   +
2    Esilsky            Esil              1941           m   +
3    Zhaksinsky         Zhaksy            1970           m   +       +
4                       Kima              1980           m   +
5    Astrakhansky       Zhaltyr           1940           m   +       +
6    Kokshetau town     Kokshetau         1895         M/А   +
7    Stepnogorsk town   Stepnogorsk       1935           m   +
8    Atbassarsky        Atbassar          1886           m   +       +
9    Sandyktausky       Balkashino        1934           m   +       +
10   Egindykolsky       Egindykol         1973           m   +       +
11   Zharkainsky        Tasty-Taldy       1934           m   +
12   Zerendinsky        Zerenda           2004           m   +       +
13   Akkolsky           Akkol             1909           m   +
14   Astana city        Astana            1870           m   +
15   Arshalinsky        Arshaly           1935           m   +
16                      Borovoe SFM       1980         M/А   +
17   Burabaisky         Burabay           2006         M/А   +   +
18                      Schuchinsk        1898           m   +
19   Korgalzhinsky      Korgalzhin        1955           m   +
20   Ereimentausky      Novomarovka       2009           m   +
21   Shortandinsky      Shortandy         2007           m   +
                                        Karaganda oblast
1    Osakarovsky        Rodnikovsky       1978           m   +
2                       Osakarovka        2007           m   +       +
3    Nurinsky           Kievka            2005           m   +       +
4                       Barshino          2007           m   +
5                       Kertindy          1956           m   +
6                       Karaganda         1969           m   +       +
     Bukhar-Zhirausky   Agricultural
                        experimental
                        station
7                       Korneevka         1959          m    +       +
8    Karkaralinsky      Karkaraly         1875         M/А   +
9                       Besoba            1938          m    +
10   Ulytausky          Dzhetykonyr       1947          m    +
11                      Kulzhambay        1972          m    +
12                      Ulytau            2006         m     +
13   Zhaarkinsky        Zhanaarka         1937         m     +


                                             - 334 -
14                      Karazhal             2008         m     +
15                      Kyzylzhar            1937         m     +
16   Shetsky            Kyzyltau             1947         m     +
17                      Agadyr               1948         m     +
18                      Aksu-Ayuly           1938         m     +
19                      Zharyk               1938         m     +
20   Aktogaysky         Aktogay              1931         m     +           +
21                      Balkhash             1959         m     +   +
22                      Bektauata            1938         m     +
23                      Saryagash            1961         m     +
24                      Sayak                1973         m     +
25   Karaganda city     Karaganda            1932         m     +
26   Zheskazgansky      Zheskazgan           1932         m     +   +
                                                SKO
1    Arysky             Arys                 1925         m     +
2    Tulkubassky        Т. Ryskulbekov aul   1951         m     +       +
3    Turkestansky       Akchisay             1935         m     +
4                       Turkestan            1882         m     +
5    Kazygurtsky        Kazygurt             1936         m     +       +
6    Otrarsky           Kyzylkum             1946         m     +
7    Zhetysaisky        Zhetysay             1957         m     +       +
8    Tolebiysky         Tasaryk              1906         m     +       +
9                       Shuuldak             1936         m     +
10   Suzaksky           Tasty                1948         m     +       +
11                      Sholakkurgan         1935         m     +
12   Shardarinsky       Shardara             1934         m     +           +
13   Baidykbeksky       Shayn                1936         m     +
14   Shimkent city      Shymkent             1938         m     +       +
                                                EKO
1    Aygozsky           Aygoz                18896         m    +
2                       Aktogay              1961          m    +
3                       Barshatas            1937          m    +
4    Beskaragaisky      Semiyarka            1893          m    +
5    Borodulikhinsky    Dmitrievka           1960          m    +       +
6    Glubokovsky        Leninogorsk          1928          m    +
7    Zharminsky         Shar                 1931          m    +
8                       Shalabay             1934          m    +
9                       Zhalgystobe          1931          m    +
10   Zaisanskyй         Zaisan               1876          m    +
11   Zyraynovsky        Zyraynovsk           1887          m    +       +
12                      Seleznevka           1967          m    +   +       +
13   Katon-karagaysky   Katonkaragay         1898          m    +
14                      Ulken naryn          1937          m    +       +
15   Kokpektinsky       Kokpekty             1889          m    +
16                      Samarka              1929          m    +       +
17   Kurchumsky         Boran                2005         M/А   +
18                      Zapovednik           1982          m    +           +
                        Markakol
19                      Terekty              1970         m     +
20                      Kurshim              1936         m     +
21   Tarbagataisky      Akzhar               1961         m     +
22                      Aksuat               1940         m     +
23                      Tugyl                1907         m     +   +



                                                - 335 -
24   Urzharsky         Urzhar            1933             m    +       +
25                     Bakty             1894             m    +
26   Shemonaihinsky    Shemonaikha       1934             m    +       +
27   Ust-kamenogorsk   Ust-Kamenogorsk   1877            M/А   +

28   Semipalatinsk     Kainar             1950           m     +
29                     Semipalatinsk      1944           m     +   +
30   Abaisky           Karaul             1937           m     +
                                         Aktobe oblast
1    Shalraksky        Aykkum             1949           m     +       +
2                      Shalkar            1922           m     +           +
3                      Baskuduk           1959           m     +
4    Aitekebiisky      Komsomolskoe       1970           m     +       +
5                      Karabutak          1937           m     +
6    Alginsky          Ilyinsky           1958           m     +       +
7    Irgizsky          Irgiz              1856           m     +
8                      Nura               1953           m     +
9    Baiganinsky       Karaulkeldy        1937           m     +
10   Kargalinsky       Kos-Istek          1956           m     +       +
11   Martuksky         Martuk             1926           m     +       +
12                     Rodnikovka         1925           m     +       +
13                     Mulgalzharskaya    1926           m     +
14   Mugalzharsky      Emba               1904           m     +   +
15                     Zhagabulak         2007           m     +
16   Khobdinsky        Novoalekseevka     1937           m     +
17                     Krasnoyrskoe       2005           m     +
18   Khromtausky       Novorossiyskoe     1925           m     +       +
19   Temirsky          Temir              1894           m     +
20   Uilsky            Uil                1886           m     +
21   Aktobe city       Aktobe             1898           m     +
                                            WKO
1    Burlinsky         Aksay              1937           m     +
2    Syrymsky          Dzhambeity         1897           m     +
3    Dzhangalinsky     Dzhangala          1979           m     +
4                      Zhanakazan         2006           m     +
5    Kaztalovsky       Zhalpaktal         1924           m     +
6                      Kaztalovka         1956           m     +
7    Taskalinsky       Kamenka            1954           m     +       +
8    Karatobinsky      Karatobe           1958           m     +
9    Akzhaisky         Taipak             1891           m     +
10                     Chapaevo           1930           m     +
11   Uralsk city       Uralsk             1899           m     +   +   +
12   Bokei-orda        Urda               1915           m     +
13   Chingirlausky     Chingirlau         1928           m     +       +
14   Zelenovsky        Yanvartsevo        1955           m     +
15   Dzhanibeksky      Dzhanibek          1950           m     +       +




                                             - 336 -
Annex 8 - Appendix C.
Hydrotermal Indexes and Trend Analysis


A simple index adopted for agricultural monitoring in Kazhakstan is the hydrothermal ratio

(HTR) defined as HTR 
                              R , where R is cumulated rainfall expressed in millimeters and
                             T / 10
T is the sum of temperatures in degrees for the period with average daily temperatures above
10°C. It is based on the concept that active vegetation of most crops starts from the date of stable
transfer of average per diem temperature above 10°С, which on most part of farming Kazakhstan
comes to the end of April – beginning of May. A very severe drought would correspond to
HTR=0.3, less severe drought is usually in the range 0.31 < HTR < 0.6, a medium drought is in
the range 0.61 < HTR < 0.8, and weak drought is when 0.81 < HTR < to 1.0
A slightly more complex example is humidity factor K, developed by Kelchevskay, Brinken,
Sapozhnikova and Chirkova. The K index is essentially a ratio between water available for
evapotranspiration (snow contribution is accounted for 0.5 of precipitation levels) and cumulated
average temperature. The K index may be indicative of agricultural drought situations when the
daily thermal cycle (i.e. solar radiation) is not too strong and the local balance between rainfall
and evapotranspiration occurs over time scales of about a month or longer. The actual formulation
                     0.5  R114   R58
of the K index K                             . Map A1.1 portrays a zoning of the country on the
                          0.118 T58
basis of the K index according to which the territory of Kazakhstan can be divided into 6 zones
(Map AD.1). Main crop farming area is set in poor watered (K=0,8-1,0), poor arid (K=0,6-0,8)
and mid arid zone (K=0,4-0,6).




                                              - 337 -
Map AD.1 Kazakhstan climate classification according to Humidity factor K




       К >1,0 well watered soil                             K = 0,4-0,6 – mid arid zone
       К = 0,8 – 1,0 – poor watered zone                    К = 0,2 – 0,4 strongly arid zone
       К = 0,6 – 0,8 – weakly arid zone                     К =<0,2 – dry zone



Source: KHM


Table AD.1. Trend analysis
                            Annual Rainfall        Annual Temperature
                           Trend            P(t)   Trend            P(t)
  Aktogay                    2.8           18.5%    0.05           2.6%
  Balkashino                 0.6           84.4%    0.07           0.7%
  Diyevskaya                -2.2           23.7%    0.09           0.1%
  Kostanay                  -1.1           59.2%    0.09           0.2%
  Kushmurun                  0.0           99.1%    0.07           0.7%
  Mikhailovka                0.7           77.9%    0.05           3.6%
  Schuchinsk                 2.4           31.7%    0.06           2.4%
  Stepnogorsk               -1.1           51.4%    0.07           0.7%
  Tasaryk                   -0.8           87.3%    0.04           0.2%
  Zholboldy                  0.2           87.4%    0.06           9.8%

Source: Authors‘ analysis on KHM data.




                                                      - 338 -
Annex 8 - Appendix D.
Yield data




                        - 339 -
Annex 8 - Appendix E
WII Pricing Methodology


     1. For the purpose of defining plausible commercial premium rates for the WII contract
structures developed in this feasibility study, the Return-on-Risk (RoR) approach has been
adopted.112 As for any insurance contract, pricing of WII is a highly subjective process and there
is no correct approach: any industry player will make use of specific and customized pricing
methodologies. Hence, the purpose of this analysis is not to provide objective market quotes, but
to factor in the various elements that may provide a more realistic estimate of the cost of insuring
against drought with a WII contract.

     2. In order to get to the definition of a final premium, the RoR approach analyses the
Expected Loss (the arithmetic average payout of the contract from the historical cleaned dataset
for the station), the Probable Maximum Loss (PML, representing the cost the client has to pay to
buy the right of receiving extreme indemnities ), and Administration and Business Expenses.

      3. In the RoR approach the premium is calculated as follows:

        Premium = AEL + * [PML (1-in-100) – AEL] + Admin. & Bus. Expenses, or also
           Premium = Technical Premium + Admin. & Bus. Expenses
            where:
             AEL is the Adjusted Expected Loss, i.e. the Expected Loss adjusted where
                necessary by a data uncertainty factor and a missing data factor; computed as
                follows:

                  o   Data Uncertainty Factor = F (β) * s /sqrt(N*(1-j));

                      with F (β) as the selected level of confidence;
                      and s/Sqrt(N*(1-j)), the standard error of the mean corrected for the % of
                      missing values ―j‖

                PML (1-in-100) is the Probable Maximum Loss or the highest value of payouts
                 expected 1 in a 100 years under the defined contract.

                Admin. & Bus. Expenses (ABE) a percentage of the Technical Premium.


    4. The rationale behind the introduction of PML (sometimes called Value at Risk, VaR) is
that the insurer is exposed to the risk of extreme payouts. Therefore he decides that the client
has to pay a fraction of this payout to buy the right of receiving such extreme payouts.



112
    A more comprehensive illustration of the use of the RoR approach for pricing WII contracts is provided
in the web based training course on WII available at www.agrisktraining.org. Literature references for the
RoR are World Bank (2005), ISMEA (2006) and Henderson et al. (2002).


                                                 - 340 -
    5. s the target Return-on-Risk (RoR), assuming the insurer is required to reserve
capital against its portfolio at the PML (1-in-100) year level and where risk is defined in terms
of the payouts in excess of the AEL..

     6. Missing data in the weather stations records need to be incorporated into the pricing of
the weather insurance contracts. As there is increased uncertainty in data that is received from a
station with missing data, the resulting insurance contract will be priced higher due to the higher
level of uncertainty regarding the underlying risk. A simple way of incorporating the ‗data quality
risk‘ in the pricing is to add a data uncertainty factor to the AEL In this perspective, Kazakhstan
is a rather fortunate environment as the rate of missing data is usually very low, maximum close
to 1% for the daily weather data analyzed during this feasibility study, so that the final gross
premium is hardly affected by data uncertainty.


    7. The following are the values of the pricing parameters that have been adopted in
this feasibility study:

    PML = Maximum historical loss
    β = 90% and, therefore, F(β) = 1.28
    N = 25
    j=0
    
    




                                             - 341 -
Annex 8 - Appendix F
WII Prototype Contracts


Figure A8.2: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Auliekolskiy Rayon



                15.000


                10.000


                 5.000
  KZT/Hectare




                     0


                 -5.000


                -10.000

                          HTR Index Payout          Revenue Loss

Rayon: Auliekolskiy                    Weather Station: Kushmurun
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%   Index: HTR, from 1 March to 31 July
Trigger: 0.475 Index Units             Exit: 0.100 Index Units
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 19,000    Reference Gross Premium: 13.7%
Basis Risk Index: 18%




                                         - 342 -
Figure A8.?: Historical Performance of Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
Enbekshilderskiy Rayon (WS Stepnogorsk)


                   15.000


                   10.000


                    5.000
   KZT / Hectare




                        0


                    -5.000


                   -10.000


                   -15.000

                             K Index Payout       Revenue Loss
Rayon: Enbekshilderskiy                 Weather Station: Stepnogorsk
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%    Index: K: Prec: 1 Nov-31Aug; Temp: 1 May-31 Aug
Trigger: 0.700 Index Units              Exit: 0.200 Index Units
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 23,000     Reference Gross Premium: 15.2%
Basis Risk Index: 50%




                                          - 343 -
Figure A8.?: Historical Performance of WII Contract for Spring Wheat in
Enbekshilderskiy Rayon (WS Schuchinsk)




                 15.000


                 10.000


                  5.000
   KZT/Hectare




                      0


                  -5.000


                 -10.000


                 -15.000

                             K Index Payout       Revenue Loss

Rayon: Enbekshilderskiy                 Weather Station: Schuchinsk
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%    Index: K: Prec: 1 Nov-31Aug; Temp: 1 May-31 Aug
Trigger: 0.700 Index Units              Exit: 0.200 Index Units
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 23,000     Reference Gross Premium: 15.0%
Basis Risk Index: 86%




                                          - 344 -
Figure A8.2: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Altinsarin Rayon



                 25.000

                 20.000

                 15.000

                 10.000
   KZT/Hectare




                  5.000

                      0

                  -5.000

                 -10.000

                 -15.000

                           Cumulated Precipitation Payout            Revenue Loss
Rayon: Altinsarin                              Weather Station: Kostanay
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%           Index: Cumulative precipitation, 1 Mar-20 Jul
Trigger: 95 mm                                 Exit: 30 mm
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 24,000            Reference Gross Premium: 17%
Basis Risk Index: 41%




                                                 - 345 -
Figure A8.3: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Aktogayskiy Rayon (WS Aktogai)



                15.000


                10.000


                 5.000
  KZT/Hectare




                     0


                 -5.000


                -10.000
                                                                Yield reduction
                                                                due to locust attack
                -15.000

                          Cumulated Rain Payout         Revenue Loss

Rayon: Aktogayskiy                      Weather Station: Aktogai
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%    Index: Cumulative precipitation, 1 Mar - 31 Aug
Trigger: 150 mm                         Exit: 50 mm
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 13,000     Reference Gross Premium: 20.9%
Basis Risk Index: 90%




                                          - 346 -
Figure A8.3: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Aktogayskiy Rayon (WS Zholboldy)




                  15.000


                  10.000


                   5.000
    KZT/Hectare




                       0


                   -5.000


                  -10.000
                                                                    Yield reduction
                                                                    due to locust attack
                  -15.000

                            Cumulated Rain Payout          Revenue Loss

Rayon: Aktogayskiy                        Weather Station: Zholboldy
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%      Index: Cumulative precipitation, 1 Mar - 31 Aug
Trigger: 160 mm                           Exit: 50 mm
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 13,000       Reference Gross Premium: 24.2%
Basis Risk Index: 88%




                                            - 347 -
Figure A8.3: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Bulandinsky Rayon (80% yield reference level)




                 15.000


                 10.000
   KZT/Hectare




                  5.000


                      0


                  -5.000

                                                                      Yield reduction
                 -10.000                                              due to excesssive rain
                                                                      and pest attack
                             K Index Payout         Revenue Loss

Rayon: Bulandinsky                      Weather Station: Balkashino
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 80%    Index: K: Prec: 1 Nov-31Aug; Temp: 1 May-31 Aug
Trigger: 0.700 Index Units              Exit: 0.300 Index Units
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 23,000     Reference Gross Premium: 9.9%
Basis Risk Index: 78%




                                          - 348 -
Figure A8.3: Historical Performance of Drought Index Contract for Spring Wheat in
             Bulandinsky Rayon (65% yield reference level)




                 5.000
                 4.000
                 3.000
                 2.000
   KZT/Hectare




                 1.000
                     0
                 -1.000
                 -2.000
                 -3.000
                 -4.000
                 -5.000

                             K Index Payout         Revenue Loss

Rayon: Bulandinsky                      Weather Station: Balkashino
Indicative Yield Level Coverage: 65%    Index: K: Prec: 1 Nov-31Aug; Temp: 1 May-31 Aug
Trigger: 0.530 Index Units              Exit: 0.300 Index Units
Contract Maximum Payout: KZT 19,000     Reference Gross Premium: 3.1%
Basis Risk Index: 67%




                                          - 349 -
