Document of             FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3229-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
REFINERIES RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
March 8, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1, 1982)
US$1             =    Rs 9.246049
Rs 1             =    US$0.108154
Rs 1 million    =    US$108,154
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.5, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPCL    -        Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
CRL     -        Cochin Refineries Ltd.
EIL     -        Engineers India Ltd.
FCC     -        Fluid Catalytic Cracker
HPCL    -        Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.
IOC     -        Indian Oil Corporation
GOI     -        Government of India
MRL     -        Madras Refineries Ltd.
ONGC    -        Oil and Natural Gas Commission
OIL     -        Oil India Ltd.
tpy     -        tons per year
UOP     -        Universal Oil Products Co. (USA)



FOR OFFICIAL USZ ONLY
ISDIA
REFINERIES RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:    Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., Hindustan Petroleum
Corporation Ltd., Madras Refineries Ltd., Cochin Refineries Ltd.,
and several other Indian refinery companies.
Amount:          US$200 million.,
Terms:           Repayment over twenty years, including five years of
grace, at 11.6% per annum.
Relending       Maturities not to exceed 15 years, including four years of
Terms:           grace, at 12% per annum. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project          The project would assist the Government to redress the
Description:    imbalance between domestic demand for and supply of
petroleum products, and to improve energy efficiency in
the sector. Its main components include: (a) instalation
at four refineries of additional capacity and secondary
processing facilities to convert fuel oil into
higher-value products; (b) additions to petroleum tankage
and distribution facilities; (c) facilities to reduce
energy requirements; (d) pollution control facilities.
The project faces only limited risks in that it involves
primarily the expansion and rationalization of existing
facilities, using conmercially proven technology.
This docta t has a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
lthsi official duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Refineries Conversion and                                 (US$ millions)
Expansion Component                               Local      Foreign      Total
Equipment, Materials and Spares            106.0      210.3         316.3
Freight, Duties and Taxesl/                 83.7        9.7          93.4
Licensing, Engineering and
Project Management Services              32.2        3.9          36.1
Civil Works                                 49.0        5.4          54.4
Erection                                    52.9        3.9          56.8
Pre-operating and
Commissioning Charges                    13.3       2.0           15.3
Sub-total                              317.1      23.
Energy Efficiency and
Pollution Control Component
Equipment, Materials and Spares              31.5       18.9          50.4
Freight, Taxes and Dutiesl/                 13.2        1.6          14.8
Licensing, Engineering and -
Project Management Services               4.1        0.1           4.2
Civil Works                                  3.2        0.4           3.6
Erection                                     4.5        0.2           4.7
Pre-operating and
Commissioning Charges                     1.2       0.4            1.6
Sub-total                                57.7      21.6          79.3
Base Cost Estimates                            394.8      256.8         651.6
Physical Contingencies                          36.3       25.3          61.6
Price Contingencies                             71.3       45.8         117.1
Total Installed Cost                    502.4      327.9         830.3
Working Capital                                 18.9      106.9         125.8
Interest During Construction                    96.4       33.2         129.6
Total Financing Required                617.7      468.0       1,085.7
1/ Of which, duties and taxes total US$93.2 million.



-iii-
Financing Plan:
kLSf millions)
Local      Foreign      Total
Equity                                        111.7      268.0         379.7
GOI Loan                                      506.0         -          506.0
IBRD Loan                                       -        200.0        200.0
Total                                     617.7      468.0      1,085.7
Estimated                                           (US$ millions)
Disbursements:            FY82           FY83         FY84        FY85        FY86
Annual               5.0           59.0         64.0         48.6       23.4
Cumulative           5.0           64.0         128.0       176.6      200.0
Rate of Return:   Over 80%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3645-IN, dated March 2, 1982.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
KEPUKr AND  ECUMMhNUAriONU ut iRE rKuSiLhNT-
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE
REFINERIES RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
loan in an amount equivalent to US$200 million to India (GOI) to help finance
the foreign exchange costs of a refineries rationalization project. Amor-
tization would be over 20 years, including five years of grace, at an inter-
est rate of 11.6% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to
various Indian refinery companies at 12% per annum, with maturities not
exceeding 15 years, including four years of grace. The exchange risk would
be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
fo _e. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Fourth Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation Credit Project (No. P-3196-IN), dated
February 1, 1982.



-2-
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.



-3-
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around 130 million tons.
While the performance of the recent past and the probable future trends
suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand, the balance
remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer
supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. For
example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure adequate build up
of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage
the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high
priority.
9.         The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.        The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into balance at a reasonable level of growth. In an effort
to make these adjustments, the Government has developed an investment program
for the Sixth Plan period and implenented a number of policy measures which
are designed to bring the economy closer to external equilibrium. These



-4-
measures recognize the need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth. To assist the Government in its adjustment
effort, the IMF approved an Extended Fund Facility for India for
SDR 5.0 billion on November 9, 1981. Over the next three years, this
facility will provide India with a significant share of the external resour-
ces required to bring about the necessary changes in the structure of the
economy and will substantially increase India's flexibility in dealing with
its external account imbalance.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports -
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil).  With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may nac materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
lir with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, over the past year
India has begun to make judicious use of a mix of sources of external financ-
ing, including borrowing from financial markets of about US$1 billion and,
most recently, the SDR 5 billion Extended Fund Facility.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of-growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and



-7-
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 62 loans and 144 development
credits to India totalling US$2,931 million and US$10,283 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,188 million had been
repaid, and US$4,408 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in 1980/81 totalled US$962 million, repre-
senting an increase of about 32 percent over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.6
million, of which US$22.6 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$90.8 million, US$81.9 million
represents loans and US$8.9 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.        The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.  Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1981, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$1,828 million, of which US$819
million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,009
million.
26.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
General
27.       Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear)
accounts for about 47% of total energy consumption in India, with the
balance (53%) being derived from non-commercial sources such as firewood
and agricultural and animal wastes. Over the past ten years, the growth
of energy consumption in India has averaged 4% per annum, but this has not
been sufficiently rapid to raise per capita consumption above 410 kg of
coal equivalent, which is average for developing countries. The share of
oil products in total and commercial energy consumption is growing rapidly
and in 1979/80 accounted for 23% of commercial energy consumption.
Electricity consumption has shown the sharpest growth and accounts for 43%
of total commercial energy consumption followed by coal (34%). Firewood
is the most widely consumed fuel in India, accounting for about 65% of
total non-commercial energy consumption. Other non-commercial sources of
fuel, such as vegetable and animal wastes, account for the remaining 35%
of consumption.
28.       Inadequate supplies of energy have been a major constraint
hindering India's economic growth. Although considerable indigenous
resources of energy exist, their development has not kept pace with
consumption demand. In November 1979, a high-level Working Group on
Energy Policy recommended measures to reduce energy demand. Prominent
among the recommendations were improvement in the efficiency of energy
use, introduction of fuel-efficient technologies, reduction of
transportation demand, reduction of the energy intensity of industrial
investment, and inter-fuel substitution from commercial to non-commercial
and renewable energy resources. In addition to containing the demand for
petroleum products to the extent feasible, India has made concerted
efforts to explore and develop its domestic energy resources. The Sixth
Five-Year Plan contains significant policy measures and investments to
achieve a better balance of supply and demand, although energy shortfalls
are likely to persist in the medium term.
29.       Coal remains the primary domestic source of commercial energy
in India. Coal production has risen from about 78 million tons in 1973/74
to 107 million tons in 1980/81. Coal production has been constrained by
power shortages, delays in commissioning new mines, labor difficulties and
transportation bottlenecks, and shortages have resulted. Installed
electric generating capacity in 1980/81 is estimated at 33,000 MW, of
which hydroelectric plants account for about 33%. Potential demand for
power has consistently exceeded supply in recent years. The estimated
deficit (calculated as actual supply compared to potential unrestricted
demand) widened to 12.6% in 1980/81. Faced with sharp increases in demand
for electricity, generation has been constrained by low capacity
utilization and delays in completing planned thermal generation capacity.
In 1980, a Government Committee recommended broad-ranging reform of the



-10-
power sector. Measures are underway to improve efficiency of thermal
power plants, improve the coordination of power planning, strengthen the
role of the Center in power development, intensify hydroelectric
generation and improve the finances of State Electricity Boards. Natural
gas has assumed considerable importance in the Indian economy with the
development of the Bombay High and Bassein offshore fields which provide
both associated and non-associated gas. Gas reserves in 1978 were
estimated at 344 billion cubic meters. The gas is intended for use mainly
as feedstock for fertilizers and petrochemicals, with the heavier
fractions being sold as bottled gas to substitute for kerosene and other
fuels.
Petroleum
30.       Crude oil production from domestic reserves has increased
steadily over the past 20 years from as little as 0.45 million tons in
1960/61 to almost 7 million tons in 1970/71 and an estimated 10.6 million
tons in 1980/81. India's total hydrocarbon reserves have recently been
estimated at 6.5 billion tons, of which about two-thirds were offshore.
Commercial production is confined to two fields, one in the northeastern
states centering in Assam, the other in the offshore Bombay High fields.
The Government has initiated efforts to expand oil exploration activities
and has offered selected blocks to foreign firms under production-sharing
arrangements. Discussions are underway with interested foreign firms.
31.       Consumption of crude oil, which has been growing at over 7% in
recent years, is currently estimated at 34.7 million tons. By the end of
the Plan period (1984/85), consumption is expected to reach about 42
million tons. This would exceed expected domestic production by over 22
million tons on current estimates. The import bill for crude oil and
petroleum products has risen to US$6.7 billion in 1980/81, representing
42% of total merchandise imports and 78% of India's merchandise export
earnings. Although there are good prospects for increasing production
from existing fields, which are being pursued by the Government,
significant efforts will be needed in oil exploration and development if
India is to achieve a better balance between energy demand and supply.
Sector Institutions.
32.       The Ministry of Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizers is charged
with policy-making in the petroleum sector. Together with the Planning
Commission, it approves all investments and the budgets of public
companies operating in the sector. The Oil and Natural Gas Commission
(ONGC) and Oil India Limited (OIL), both public sector undertakings, are
engaged in the exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources.
Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) handles all of India's crude oil imports.
The Oil Industry Development Board is a financial institution which
obtains funds through a cess levied on domestic crude production and
provides financing for organizations engaged in oil development. As
mentioned above, India has invited foreign private oil companies to help
explore for oil, both onshore and offshore.



-1 1-
Refining in India
33.        Six companies operate eleven petroleum refineries in the
country. Four of these companies are wholly-owned by GOI, viz, Indian Oil
Corporation (I0C), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), Hindustan
Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL), and Bongaigaon Refinery and
Petrochemicals Ltd. (BRPL). Of the two companies in the joint sector,
Cochin Refineries Ltd. (CRL) is owned by GOI, Phillips Petroleum Company
(USA) and other Indian public and private shareholders and the Madras
Refineries Ltd. (MRL) is owned by GOI, the National Iranian Oil Company
Ltd. and Amoco (USA).  In both cases, the Government is the majority
shareholder. The largest refinery company is I0C, which operates four
refineries and is also responsible for the country's import of crude oil
and petroleum products. Marketing and distribution are mainly in the
hands of IOC, HPCL and BPCL. All other companies rely on I0C for the
marketing and distribution of their products. Retail outlets are operated
almost completely by private dealers. The existing refineries have simple
configurations with only a few having secondary processing facilities.
This results in sub-optimum crude throughput and limited production of
middle distillates (kerosene and diesel oil) which are in substantial
demand and need to be imported.
34.        In 1980/81, India's total production of refinery products was 24
million tons per year (tpy).l/ Capacity utilization in the industry is the
highest among process industries in India, averaging 86% in the late
1970s, which is satisfactory by international standards. Capacity
utilization fell to 81% in 1980/81, due to a shortage of crude caused
partly by the Iran/Iraq war and disruptions in supply from Assam. Since
March 1981, these problems have been contained and, under normal
conditions of crude availability, it is expected that on average capacity
utilization could be sustained at or near 90% in future.
35.        Over the past decade, refinery production did not keep pace with
demand, particularly in the period 1975-81 when significant amounts of
kerosene and high-speed diesel oil had to be imported. Consumption of
refined products grew at 5.6% per annum to almost 31 million tons in
1980/81. Demand *for petroleum products is expected to reach 60 million
tpy by 1989/90. There is relatively limited scope for curtailing
consumption, given that consumption levels are already low and overall
petroleum prices are high by international standards, and that the demand
for most products is relatively inelastic since they are used principally
in the transport and agricultural sectors for productive purposes. Low
levels of energy consumption, high prices and supply constraints of other
fuel sources (firewood, coal and electric power) combine to limit further
possibilities for inter-fuel substitution.
1/ In addition to the eleven refineries currently in operation, a new
refinery of 6.0 million tpy at Mathura is now under construction and
is expected to be commissioned in mid-1982.



-12-
36.       In addition to the Mathura refinery mentioned in the footnote
above, the Sixth Five-Year Plan includes major investments totalling over
US$2.6 billion to (i) increase installed refining capacity by 55% to 58.7
million tpy; (ii) add 5.5 million tpy of conversion capacity; and (iii)
improve the energy efficiency of existing refineries. Investments are
also planned to increase product storage capacity, to extend the oil
pipeline from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh into the Punjab and to mitigate
pollution. These investments will substantially narrow the current gap
between supply and demand of refined products, but domestic production
would reach only about 50 million tpy, and meet only 80-85% of projected
product requirements, in 1989/90. The supply gap, applying particularly
to middle distillates, would have to be met through imports.
Product Pricing
37.       Given the high rate of growth of petroleum products, GOI is
taking several measures to control future demand growth, including efforts
to channel some demand into other domestic sources, such as coal and
hydroelectric power, which are relatively plentiful in the country.
Another measure is to shift goods and passenger traffic from diesel motor
vehicles to railways, and provide the railway with electrification
capacity. As mentioned, however, the structure of petroleum consumption
in India is such that the scope for significant inter-fuel substitution is
limited. Therefore, the most important tool being used by GOI as a
conservation measure is to set petroleum prices at levels which will
reduce the energy intensity of the economy.
38.       In July 1981, GOI, continuing a practice of passing on to
consumers increased prices of imported crude oil, further increased
petroleum prices substantially. The prices for gasoline, high speed
diesel and fuel oil are significantly above comparable CIF prices, as can
be seen below.
India - Retail Prices of Petroleum Products
(in US$ per gallon)
Current
Prices                                  Prices as
Before                  Import          % of
July      Current       CIF Bombay       Import
1981      Prices        Price a/        Prices
Gasoline            2.45       2.70          1.04            260
High-Speed Diesel  1.19        1.34          1.10            122
Kerosene            0.73       0.81          1.10             74
Fuel Oil            1.11       1.24          0.72            172
a/  Based on crude oil at US$34 per barrel, and recent ratios of crude oil
prices to product prices in the Far East.



-13-
Kerosene prices were also increased, but they still remain below CIF
prices; this gap, however, is more than compensated by the higher prices
for other products. The price of kerosene is kept low by GOI principally
for social reasons. Kerosene is used by households in urban areas as the
principal fuel for cooking, and for cooking and lighting in rural areas,
where it substitutes in part for scarce fuels such as firewood and cow
dung. Low kerosene prices are not likely to result in significant
diversion of kerosene to other uses. The supply of kerosene, considered
as an essential commodity, is closely monitored by GOI, in that it is
released only in small quantities and through fair price shops, primarily
to restrain diversion to uses other than essential household needs. The
Government's allocative mechanism is effective in restraining demand and
reducing diversion. Kerosene consumption presently represents only 14% of
total petroleum product consumption (which is lower than in many
developing countries), and in the decade from 1970 to 1980 consumption of
kerosene has grown at a low rate of 2.5% per annum. Despite relatively
low kerosene prices, the average price level for petroleum products in
India, among the highest in developing countries, is satisfactorily above
average CIF import prices. GOI periodically reviews petroleum prices and
generally raises them at least once a year to reflect changes in
international conditions. Domestic crude prices were also increased
substantially in July 1981,1/ and provide adequate cash flow and rate of
return to oil producing companies. At the present time, both the levels
and the structure of petroleum prices in India are considered appropriate.
39.       The Government sets retention prices for refinery companies to
allow each to earn a reasonable return2/ on investment when operated under
defined efficient operating norms.  The current system of setting
ex-refinery prices is working well, as indicated by the high capacity
utilization rates and satisfactory cash generation levels achieved by most
refineries. On the average, it is based on economic costs and is
considered satisfactory.
Bank Group Involvement
40.       The Bank has made two loans totalling US$550 million for the
development of the offshore Bombay High oil fields. The first loan
(Ln 1473-IN) was made in 1977 and financed Phase III of ONGC's Bombay High
development program. The project was completed in March 1981, about nine
months behind schedule. The facilities are operating satisfactorily. A
Project Performance Audit is under preparation. A second loan for US$400
million (Ln 1925-IN) was made in December 1980 to assist in the financing
of Phase IV and advanced action on Phase V of the program. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
1/ From US$6.1 per barrel to about US$18.8 per barrel.
2/ The pricing formula would enable a refinery company operating effi-
ciently to earn a rate of return of 15% (before tax) on fixed assets
and working capital.



-14-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was identified in November 1980 and appraised in
July 1981. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3645-IN, dated March 2, 1982)
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A
Supplementary Project Data sheet appears as Annex III. Negotiations were
held in Washington in December 1981. The Borrower was represented by
Mr. N. Misra of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
as coordinator of the Indian delegation.
Project Sponsors
42.       The principal refinery companies participating in the project
are Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., Hindustan Petroleum Corporation
Ltd., Madras Refineries Ltd. and Cochin Refineries Ltd. The first two
companies are wholly Government-owned, while the latter two have partial
private ownership (see para 33 above).
43.       All the companies have experienced, capable management and are
organized on a sound basis to handle their refinery operations, supply and
distribution, marketing and finances. Satisfactory preventive maintenance
has contributed to high rates of capacity utilization. The overall
financial position of the companies is sound, although each suffered
temporary setbacks in 1980/81 when rapidly rising imported crude prices
resulted in heavy borrowing by the refining companies. The July 1981 rise
in prices of domestic crude and petroleum products restored the companies'
financial health. All companies have raised a substantial portion of
their investment requirements from internally generated funds. The
financial and cost accounting systems of the companies are modern and
effective. Their auditing requirements and procedures are sound.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The principal thrust of the Government's investment in energy -
in projects such as coal, gas and hydropower - has been to substitute for
fuel oil. The program could not focus on substituting for higher-value
middle distillates (e.g., diesel oil and kerosene) since it is not at
present economic to do so on a large scale. As a result, middle
distillates now comprise about 75% of India's imports of petroleum
products. The proposed project would be the first Bank Group operation in
refining in India. The main objectives of the project are to expand and
modify refining capacity in order to reduce the imbalance between domestic
demand for and supply of petroleum products in India and complement other
investments in energy supply. The proposed project represents a major
effort by GOI to improve utilization of existing facilities by installing
economically-sized facilities to increase the yield of middle distillates
which are currently in deficit. It will substantially reduce India's
import bill through the substitution of crude oil imports, thereby
reducing imports of higher value products, namely, diesel oil and
kerosene. In addition to the proposed refinery expansions and
conversions, the project includes energy saving investments, namely,
measures aimed at reducing internal fuel and process heat requirements at
the four refineries (Bombay, Cochin, Madras and Visakh), and energy
conservation and pollution control devices in other refineries. By



-15-
supporting this program, the Bank could expect to play a meaningful role
in advising the Government on the optimal design, configuration and
location of new refineries, in introducing an integrated approach to
energy efficiency, and in assisting in implementation of the projects it
finances.
45.       The two major project components are:  Ci) a capacity expansion
and secondary processing component; and (ii) an energy efficiency and
pollution control component. The first component will include: (a) at
the Cochin Refinery of CRL, expansion of crude processing capacity from
the present 3.3 million metric tons per year (tpy) to 4.5 million tpy with
a new fluid catalytic cracker (FCC) facility of 1.0 million tpy; (b) at
the Madras Refinery of MRL, doubling the crude processing capacity from
the present 2.8 million tpy to 5.6 million tpy with a new FCC facility of
0.6 million tpy capacity; (c) at the Visakh refinery of Hindustan
Petroleum Corporation Ltd., expansion of crude processing capacity from
1.5 million tpy to 4.5 million tpy with a new FCC facility of 0.6 million
tpy capacity; (d) at the Bombay refinery of Bharat Petroleum Corporation
Ltd., revamping and restoring the crude processing capacity to 6 million
tpy and installing a new FCC unit of 0.6 million tpy capacity; and (e) at
the Bombay Refinery of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., installation
of a sulfur recovery unit. All the above sub-projects will also include
modifications and additions to power utilities generation, tankage,
distribution and other infrastructural facilities to the extent necessary
to achieve sustained operation at the enhanced capacities.
46.       The energy efficiency and pollution control component consists
of priority investments in several refineries in the country. The
investments proposed for improving the energy efficiency of the refineries
involve (i) the complete replacement or modification of low-efficiency
crude distillation and cracking furnaces (to increase efficiency from
about 50% to 90%); (ii) installation of air preheaters and waste heat
boilers; and (iii) installation of sulfur recovery units and pollution
control devices. Many, though not all the energy efficiency and pollution
control investments have been identified. After all have been identified
but before Bank financing will become available, each investment will be
subject to detailed techno-economic evaluation by GOI, to be submitted to
the Bank prior to December 31, 1982. Approval by the Bank will be
accorded to those investments in energy efficiency which yield
satisfactory economic returns. Investment proposals in pollution control
will be based on least cost solutions to meet agreed environmental
standards (Section 3.03 of draft Loan Agreement). Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between benefitting companies and GOI will contain appropriate
provisions.
Project Execution
47.       Technologies for secondary processing, for liquid petroleum gas
and distillate treatment and sulfur recovery have been selected and
agreements have been concluded with process licensors for supplying the
technology. These arrangements are considered satisfactory.
48.       Although there are no atmospheric pollution control standards in
India, the air quality and emission standards and practices required in



-16-
the US have prevailed in all refinery projects engineered in India since
the mid-1970s. Similar design standards will be applied under the
project. For liquid effluents control, either the Indian Standard
Specifications or local Government standards, both of which are
satisfactory, will be applied. The refinery companies will design, build
and operate facilities constructed under the project with due regard for
satisfactory environmental and safety norms (Sections 2.09 and 3.01(b)
of draft Project Agreement).
49.       An international firm, Universal Oil Products Company (UOP) of
the US, which is experienced in the refineries and petrochemicals
industry, will provide basic engineering for the fluid catalytic crackers
(FCC) and the Merox liquid petroleum gas and distillate treatment plants,
and detailed engineering for critical sections of the FCC, together with
necessary technical assistance during engineering, construction and
start-up. UOP was selected after an evaluation and comparison of its
offer with those of two other experienced international firms. A local
engineering firm, Engineers India Ltd. (EIL), with considerable
experience in engineering and project management, will provide all basic
and detailed engineering not required to be provided by UOP, procurement
services for equipment and materials, and construction supervision and
management. These engineering arrangements are satisfactory. Contracts
between each company and the engineering firms have been reviewed and are
satisfactory.
50.       EIL's Manager of Projects (Refineries), who has substantial
prior experience in the job, will have overall responsibility for
coordinating project implementation. He will be assisted by a separate
project manager for each of the refinery projects who in turn will be
assisted by a task force of core personnel (coordinators) seconded from
EIL's central departments dealing with various disciplines of engineering,
procurement, construction, accounting and finance. Under the overall
supervision of the EIL project manager, the task force personnel will be
responsible for supervising the jobs pertaining to their respective
specialties. All such personnel are in place. During the site
construction phase, EIL will establish at the project sites full-time task
forces under resident construction managers, who will report to the
concerned project manager. The site task force will be responsible on a
day-to-day basis until plant start-up, for field engineering, construction
quality control, construction supervision, stores management, time
scheduling and cost control.
51.     The organizational set-up in each of the project sponsoring
companies consists of a full-time company project manager who reports to
the Managing Director. These project managers have all been appointed and
are responsible for coordination among the various concerned agencies,
including the company's technical divisions, the process licensors, EIL,
the Central and State Governments and other statutory bodies. The company
project managers have been delegated adequate authority to approve
purchase and work contract awards. Where decisions are required in
matters which exceed the project manager's or Managing Director's
authorities, Board subcommittees can be constituted and meet at short
notice to provide quick decisions on issues pertaining to project
execution. Each refinery will place a small resident team at EIL's



-17-
offices to participate in, and expedite decisions concerning, engineering,
procurement and works contracting.
52.       The additional staff and training requirements of the project
are limited, since the project involves primarily rehabilitation of and
additions to existing facilities. Most training of additional operators
and maintenance staff will be carried out under existing training programs
in the refineries. A limited number of selected personnel will be trained
abroad, provision for which has been made in the cost estimates.
Satisfactory arrangements will be made for the provision of utilities and
transport infrastructure facilities (Section 3.04 of draft Project
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The total financing requirements of the project, including
contingencies, escalation, working capital and interest during
construction, are estimated at US$1,086 million, of which about US$618
million represents foreign exchange costs. Taxes and duties are estimated
at US$93.2 million.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would provide about
27% of the total installed cost (net of taxes and duties), and 43% of the
foreign exchange requirement. The proposed Bank loan will be utilized as
follows: US$45 million for the BPCL refinery, US$45 million for the
Visakh and Bombay refineries of HPCL, US$45 million for the Madras
refinery, US$35 million for the Cochin refinery and US$30 million for the
et rgy efficiency and pollution control investments. The Government will
provide US$506.0 million. The sponsoring companies will contribute
US$379.7 million from internally-generated funds. On the basis of
existing prices, the companies are expected to be able to mobilize these
funds during project implementation. Should they fail to do so, GOI will
provide funds promptly to cover any financing gap, as well as any cost
overruns that may develop (Section 3.02 of draft Loan Agreement). The
Government will also maintain prices at levels which permit the companies,
under conditions of efficient operation, to meet all their expenses,
service their debt and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank loan would
be made to GOI for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 11.6% per annum. The proceeds of the loan will be onlent in
rupees to the sponsoring companies at 12% per annum for 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, the standard rate for industrial and
commercial undertakings in the public sector. Execution of two subsidiary
loan agreements is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan, while
execution of the other subsidiary loan agreements on terms satisfactory to
the Bank would be conditions of disbursement for the relevant components
of the project (Section 6.01 and Schedule 1, paragraphs 4(b) and (c) of
draft Loan Agreement). The exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
Inflation in India over the past five years has averaged about 9.5% per
annum, although this reflects the unusual conditions prevailing after the
1979 drought (see paras 6 and 7). The rate of inflation has fallen
sharply during 1981/82, so that the average annual inflation rate over the
next five years is not expected to exceed 8%. The on-lending rate of 12%
is, therefore, considerably above the expected rate of inflation.



-18-
Procurement and Disbursement
55.        Equipment financed under the loan will be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, except for equipment proprietary to the process design, items
whose timely supply is critical to efficient project execution, and small
items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each. These would be
procured after limited international tendering from qualified suppliers
from at least three Bank member countries, provided that the aggregate
value of such contracts does not exceed US$30 million equivalent. For the
purposes of bid evaluation under ICB, qualified local suppliers will
receive a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable duty, whichever is
lower. The Bank loan will also be used to finance the licenses and
services provided by foreign and local engineering firms. The basic
engineering work is well-advanced and detailed engineering is currently
underway.
56.        The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory and 70% of other local
expenditures on equipment, materials, and spare parts eligible for Bank
financing and 100% of the total costs of engineering services and
licensing. Of the US$200 million Bank loan, it is expected that US$90
million will be used to finance imported equipment, US$80 million to
finance local equipment procured after international competitive bidding
under Bank guidelines, and US$30 million to finance licenses and
engineering services. It is recommended that the Bank loan retroactively
finance up to US$20 million of eligible expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1981 on engineering services and downpayments on critical
equipment. The payments were made to avoid delays in project execution.
The Bank loan is expected to be completely disbursed by June 30, 1986.
Financial Evaluation
57.        The project will have a major positive impact on the financial
situation of the sponsoring companies. Madras Refinery Limited would
increase its net income from Rs 47 million in 1982 to Rs 283 million in
1986, the first year of operation. Internal cash generation would
increase from Rs 68 million to Rs 492 million in the same period; the
minimum debt service is projected at a satisfactory level of 1.8, and the
current ratio at 1.1 after 1982. In the case of Hindustan Petroleum, net
income is projected to increase from Rs 145 million to Rs 498 million and
internal cash generation from Rs 297 million to Rs 984 million between
FY82 and FY86; the minimum debt service ratio and the current ratio are
calculated at 1.5 and 1.1, respectively. For Bharat Petroleum, net income
is calculated to increase from Rs 160 million in FY82 to Rs 728 million in
FY86 and cash generation from Rs 334 million to Rs 1,119 million during
the same period; minimum debt service ratio is calculated at 1.8 and the
current ratio at 1.3, indicating comfortable liquidity situations
throughout. Cochin Refinery is projected to almost triple net income from
Rs 47 million in FY82 to Rs 127 million in FY86 and also to increase cash
generation from Rs 61 million to Rs 282 million. While its debt service
situation in 1982 will be tight, thereafter it will improve significantly.
Overall, all companies are projected to maintain and improve their



-19-
financial performance as a result of the project.  The financial rates of
return are calculated at 9% and 14% for the projects sponsored by the four
refinery companies. These financial rates of return are moderate and
below the economic rate of return for the projects, due to the fact that
the retention price formula for petroleum products is designed to allow
the refineries to earn a 15% rate of return on invested assets. Domestic
prices for petroleum products, however, are high, and the difference
between domestic and refinery prices accrues to the Government.
Nevertheless, the financial rates of return are sufficient to provide the
companies with reasonable profits and positive cash flow in each case,
beginning in the first year of operation.
58.        In order to ensure a continued satisfactory financial
performance, the sponsoring companies will: (i) maintain at all times a
long-term debt to equity ratio of 65:35, except for CRL and MRL which will
maintain this ratio after December 31, 1987; (ii) maintain a current ratio
of at least 1.1 until December 31, 1985 and at least 1.2 thereafter; (iii)
not incur additional debt in any fiscal year if by so doing the projected
debt service coverage ratio (as agreed with the Bank) would fall below
1.4; (iv) not take any action, such as prepayment of debt or distribution
of dividends, if these actions would reduce the current ratio below 1.3;
and (v) not make, during implementation of the project, any investments in
fixed assets (other than the project or for on-going or already planned
works and for maintenance purposes) in excess of US$10 million for each
refinery in any year without approval of the Bank (Section 4.03 of draft
Project Agreement). The companies will submit periodic progress reports
on the project components (Section 2.05(b) of draft Project Agreement).
Annual audited reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the close of their fiscal year (Section 4.02 of draft Project
Agreement) .1/
Benefits and Risks
59.        The economic rates of return for the four expansion and
conversion components and the sulfur recovery unit have been calculated
separately; the rate of return of the project as a whole has also been
calculated. Rates of return of individual components range from 52% to
nearly 100% and for the project overall the return is about 84%. The
returns are high because the investments are primarily in expansion and
conversion facilities and require limited supplemental infrastructure.
Also, they result from the conversion of low-value fuel oil to
higher-value middle distillates. The rates of return are affected in only
minor respects by adverse changes in assumptions about increased capital
costs, decreased capacity utilization and lower revenues.
60.        The net foreign exchange savings that would be generated by the
project amount to more than US$10 billion over the expected 12-year life
of the project, on the assumption that crude oil is imported.
1/ Those companies which are not parties to the Project Agreement will
meet similar reporting requirements, to be specified in Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between the companies and GOI.



-20-
61.       The project would result in the additional employment of about
5,000 persons during the construction phase and 760 persons once the
project components go into production. Through the provision of storage
and tankage facilities, the project will also enable the country to
increase its reserves of petroleum products and thereby minimize risk of
petroleum supply interruptions. EIL, the local engineering firm, will get
valuable experience in design and implementation of large refinery
projects, which should prove beneficial for future projects that may be
implemented by Indian refinery companies.
62.       The project faces only limited technical risks since (i) the
technologies to be used are commercially proven and will be supplied by
qualified and experienced firms, and (ii) the project involves expansion
and rationalization of existing facilities at sites which are already
developed and with adequate infrastructure. The sustained performance of
the refineries at the projected operating levels will depend on the timely
availability of adequate amounts of crude feedstock, either from domestic
sources or from imports. International oil supplies are not within the
control of GOI. However, measures being taken to increase substantially
supplies of domestic crude should help reduce uncertainties of overall
supplies. Marketing risks are also minimal, since the output from the
project facilities will principally substitute for imports, which are
currently marketed and distributed through existing channels. GOI's
pricing policy is expected to be adequate to protect the project from any
financial risk in that it has agreed to administer petroleum prices in a
manner that will permit the benefitting refinery companies to earn a
reasonable return on their capital (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement with BPCL, CRL, HPCL and MRL and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of two of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
GOI and the Refinery Companies would be an additional condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of draft Loan Agreement). Signing
of the remaining Subsidiary Loan Agreements would be conditions of
disbursement for the remaining Project components (Schedule 1, Part 4(b)
and (c), of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



-21-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Moeen A. Qureshi
March 8, 1982






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of  5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     MST RECENT ESTIMATEI
TOTAL           3281.6                                MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOIE
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5              1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       100.0    190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1       152.5    241.8              499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TPOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.0              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                      132.3       166.6    200.5              153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7       308.0    355.8              360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1        42.4      41.1              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8        54.7      56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.9       2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         2.8       2.3               2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      93.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0      13.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1        20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2         47.5      51.9              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       134.0    125.0               89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         17.0      33.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPDULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4850.4/c   4889.0   3617.4              3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.o7;T   8296.5   6429.4             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9   1311.1             1132.8                  588.5
URUAN                               ..          ..    363.5              322.3                  579.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10429.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8
RURAL                              2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          . -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE MES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0                85.9                    99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0               94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                 40.0         56.0       63.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0               38.0/as                  53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0               34.6/as                  58.4
FEMALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0               18.0/as                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         41.0       41.0                32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ..                19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0                52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSE NGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIUN                            0.7          1.1        1.3                 1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5               35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULAT1ON                            0.0          0.0        1.0                 3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9                14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                 3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9                29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.D                69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0               14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9                39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6       51.3                51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7                23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6./77l     7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0               134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  . .                  114.0               111.6                   193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.3                41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.7                51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted ar-ithetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
laa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data fur 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
IfIINITIONt OF _SOCIALINI, ttATgeS
Not.:  Although the date err don    ro  ac -te   geerlY Judged the     -otauh-itt-i- an   -sIiable, it shold also  be noted that they may not ha  ne-
eett YtalotoPeeahbteb he.oe  of the took of aadtdtddeti~ln i..o   and  ..t..t  nsed bIly dtff.tsnt nt-nrti-  te so111lleetg  h  data.  The dets st,  oe
st1ins,, uestn  to f  de..e te. cetr  of megeltode  lndte-  toted., ted thas          _etee   -soaf  eaje  differs...nse       . hates   o  ieoe..
The I     ..eeoc   .t.npe are  Ill the  -ome  coote  getp  ft the.o ..je-  unr n  ()nneo gosee   soe.ho, hn hee  -o-tge  moo-  then the c..nnecy g..ap
of th  aut ect  coety  (eneps  oo 'tpota                                                           -hpo    t  eote"gop  hc   eol   ee,fet  Afes  nd tftddls tEst"  S. cheese hsosoae of...
eono-oolorl afitiee) shocfee     Sutgco  d.t. the .......- e    pletotoighead site?-oat  teems feest   eitteadsee   nyom
sa tSy  fth   ousta   ot   eoprit  oe  o  to  ldletc.Snc   heeneag   f  oetla  segte  eItcosdeedso  tenetehltyo  dt
and  etotelfoe. ootle  aun  to  noecned  o toottooneogas  f et  it etrc   nte.    he   nrpeeao lydstid                              - t  h.-ato   they  h-neo
LOOt ASIA  lehooaeoftq.jco.)did,                                               -th- Th_ e  hsle  _ad - _fn,ohr   n   ua      o.100    tt
ToalTta.tofotnoncnpf tstedocnardtotd   ner                                                   nbm,sd  oal    lodd_yshe  repotnn he    lhope 1sd
oetoloru    lemee  fagiolurl  to   ne    meorylyorpomot  lyetclha  n  ult  adgooesgeeotae  aalatedhopIatedht
LADoRE tryt  pe ce,nehrad  loeego1aeort-toflee    98  aa                                              Petttato   sensiate   fopnleaeseatadt   emaetye    e
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~h  5'   astoe   hytoatltaebler-ed    pe-ddm   ptellllcuec
oe   E  101   It)-IP   e   ote   nOntae  toot  nIoocon   al            tl  aeae  e   elue.fta  heptte    osne,seld   hst
oftte  hyeS   cnrlcmto   eOt0ec    te    17-9hea     hs                                               n    ete   etr  menpataenlyetffd Sc sJ p :Ita  (hupt, hy
tolt1 try) in Itoeee  of oca   nuln les  peek Aellt;   1977. 1970..and  1979 ,                        teese   ISpetistee  _ep l  aretl  tecffdd  ony  cedar'  total.            y
data.ldddmtsastoin .en  Ioetlfd-Ttltte   f  dlaoeSo     shro
data.         IObeeArane..t..'                                                                                                        1-,RYCOSNTdt.   .  Ple -of dhusehldiferorera  honishld-    -oe.  ra,  o   ma7
Ichas PenIeS Io  (pecorttf  rorel - mobof uphe  SoSotpyuntn                                henesheld  onabsae  agr    of p      tnd.l'nd enHO   lis eho share   -   hlyogtoote,
tn1960nr.ee;1919191,and199  ec,                                                                   he9oca9ldfe  dnmelolPrcese                      d
Pdplaoo  Poetln                                                                                    Aretace nether of rerde-om           - raco -tote    cohensod  pua- heg h         ue,
PPLTIOtN ANpD et VITL  T egoIC an   c   ndIo_ortlt   e                                                          iefltty  atn.diatlgd bepStey.th lnaitmeenlofbdsnccreeeertre
nn eIeep re_o   a lrt   Screcoo  0ccretoy'aHrc..t..bo                                  hecaden...enmtole..oence, of .dee hin de  - t tet. uha, d  eud  -,
ted,rb         fml  lfrnL.,rct   Rtoohlll lb-og  no 7.. yenta.. ly    en                             nnenoe   eiloent 1eetiyI  ttnte                           h-rtr  at"l      .
ferclcoyeooodcngto  roon  'ne   oopay        fn    p         dioe  dicehrfdoreasrAbe-                                                 d.l-   --    .tb  f..ddi
tot  occc   t  then, 1970lged  1979 ofthmeson  ohIctln  o  ecclff                      1110f
enfcooeanct   ThI  toorhloed   ufy  fterferllty  moo  deole   c                        preiynhotag   ppoctoc;ooeol  enlde   hlden                          dd1
the arop,loorsp-nboo  of~ -doeoreocoosao.ee  enothegrnerecular   u  edutedfedff-                                                     n    oeteo   rrayfonrc.
ofonrrptrtittleorty. Thattloeyyycoeooteoc                                                  rceoln..h...o.ldrcoo"tolteoriroortO    p0'0
retneced c  thehatleof oo pruerco   oh acotertrlo   of to porenolo                 anor toe yoile oe hI tn coohtco  sheoffurol thyoi  ne.i
cchyor          c,cdnennfelroferltcotoplr-Socoyohc-oa,nlnd  onrIeorncuoc   rcdr
ceot locol.                                                             eduoet~~~~~~~~~~torqleo    uaobs  nc  t   yrcrpcmcynooolo
Yone moeluc-d f     u: tno  o.enrhd  11,-e ry theilienr cO 7r. yonoltaTh. Folloro                    prce    gesroly.ot0O               0  rre  ociolo   coatortope  oo-ori
only  191, 170  od 176 are-.    .                h.          .... hi.                     -ril-Steeh   ratI  - c        ltec  cod fncncfer -.. Total ntdto   otu""cI1
r ,hc.nc  Aite ste-oor Iq-1erothe I - Ih ldoo   (-t  yenc  .  oeki.g-eg   01$tor.cc   an.                                  e goono  tosl  decIdedy I-eor  of onoho  c . olo "
th1eref             Th csdrtee -(hpare-d -ceofran  fertrilitdnecfeod-yantcopr                        roecetpyolhog  ....es...eyleld,dil- g,1
Pooohetoo d -rois    b-ern   f er hec  - ocol- Aore  tonlenof  oct0  eofai                             -l.-en ppc peilg of tbsl dot b- co ethc aged  It y-h-e  .end0.
Icotce fr 199-00  190-70.e ccd  97-79h.                                                  Poteeseh  oon (erito-yed Ifpo..          ioc) -..h -Igli"aofucyr                  "Ill'o
Pecd  elot  teen be-tPnenod)-   perca leon  keehope  so- er-              o  sld-y-eac ~             onresenIn -ea11OS-  ecghtd yoson -Rrodary  -no noose.  .....na.nod
coptatoc    1960,  1970 cod 1979 dnoc.                                                            a.lt dar  -ehrle-n       idr 1                hrp...    hRdl.di -d
oc1yolot96o   196.170, ne 1    1979 dd n.hrodeenegornlptit  oelhid                                                                             o  of pepota- Ion; tooIeeon
Omen coroduitos  nts-ueccge Cehiludcunteceaoeay              cf...r                           plElmyee d r   --icea  IoIuelfesoditd   bynn-b-hreoelescoofhdc
d               d Iy  ata 6atotisyeas. aneuft -ecdfg tri  90l 90   n   99                   noes-e- tprdire  1h-ihe    trs   g
PenIl PlnolonAoceTon   ..ca  (td_         ne       nul  ohro   oetc                           701 leolce-re ( rateoan cp-c-)-Llcob  - 1  doncecceot ect hoocdtell 00
ofh 1hocso;     enoeude   nyoeo    aioo   ell   locn    oge.                                    eea  pht   inroecdpplstc tdon    rlroe    V  rnoc
Fealty Fnoslro-oocs (ororet o     -,cA.' noneol.- - Pceog   of  saite-d-                   lneooce-agd In yent  nhlo prpglteoc- ofd 00 te-ts  -s offer.
ofoll-ooct  f  (54  yna(oo  e   brh-ctoldols  c                                    encre   locc In(crhce7dcola  on 7bn   ttcceo
Indele.                                                                                                                        i,l  c.I Pon PooduorShl.n coodoyls A--9~l= 0If b-h  pore fppalooulItenlsa   nodnnyr  Incise.no  So dr-Se d cc th.one Io
Isen    60odo  yn  hol.I97d0troeeptnc,od  (e.g.1eugar-co                                    andlnohlye-hite..
leseedofaugol  hlt et dihie  ande.ocoo Itr ctrlo ..       e.gl.   offidry                                                                   Alopsdf-i e                          d
meolocol anoraso    970 prcc de potor  delht-  1950,17,cd17   ae                                  uatbhrPre(t-nf       ccolnl    rceprct   ol
eh,   im    o  rhettesetok     schcpplotoIdoo l   feePdifient-on,                                        -   ilpecet f-reai d tehofr --oro    ...a - pe r-eg   of t-s-blloh    boor
hocenhun   lend   196ly1-05   90   o  1977. -dic.g                                                 1970 en90     d  91d ...t79e daab.-dl...S
deeep iofo   .p..e.    so.y.efodnncfse   ontse. p                                        ail-trneofecou,d   etnl,at,eodIclI'llyrca
octiocetot of0   rn   ftslpoesprdondt   os   fcblad10.  1970, ns-f 197  dote   Theseeaoedo    SLe yocoptoca
anlel pccecsencmee.I   Icr'y ohs nc If yh       oae  ho60 in sh   TId                    IceeeTpsdny.            &so    - ald -lPoputeilo    ShArs 17hes  hIrud 0000
todd   00u   uror. 101-65  1970 csd 1977ido-c.                                            sopthe rdru-eInhoo foer
Pee osof So ceo sccn tocole fria acirul.....d cot en-Proerlo supply of fcod de-
CIld. (nn F-cl P frdallt- Per  (pc  hcoo1(-10 Anul.d-eh   per  shoono. I....nerleso-o  oApoord  -oo-e C(hioD 0  roYea ri -   ..d: -. thc oc -   o
Igegcourl-)ynnce,coch.ltfdtnootoi_cnfeeduy;drtimk-eseoldego:tp                                      (prh.to          yecO error  picondit,  yero-sl...fpcornri             00i prorcoc
roe    codeecd)   Agroom gcf  tnhcn:lOh,  1970 .. l   1   ..d970  arn                    IAOf hOusEhls
or ahith;190  1970 nodC1979  dcn-                                                                nd  Idoul   heItcrrd I_ t  rooideRah.. tao-o.:
-f-geyeIhoon           o   lto..Amteponerelsooelea...st                                                                                                ..cec .i.ir   .....r...omstoo
000m  t  S  t Oor feroc  o  ocueroo- or),crce od  urat-  eecirltnely   drcop   ie  po_nncsOc  co-cu   rqucoooe  e  o
her ofperyl  (sotl, usco. od   Oi  ul... recblnoicorone   so. na. ifffoofctte'i
P.,rendylyA lalooon   nrplentdnrcr-p         eSr   uocd eeocd r dhroosci SnmccteoI                ttcf-llslr  reb ;         I7cmlrclIl  ocpic-chnor-ot
cato....hcth-g-foot p-crehrk            otoole,pli  e.dldg. .-cId     e  e1atlr-o-oryrebllf-n(o-r                                                                      1b.   f,-
i         _ntl  cner idyc -t 1 ...c.co   eoro Stun 1- enorr d-   hcib a-    ho                pernoing  Inom   of-l olson tf..  .rha   toieS In fe..rA  tsrco    e
OnnOIc' S corro  rondo- ~ ~   ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           r.    r   g.      e          ...
-d0     - di .. to:    o i-syo.l p,noo   'flo,j. 1i    g -r'o   rotor. cod coccI -.dir-                                                                                  Me
..he  ofd peopl  9ccc,  Oror,  1rdror7  netoe  hy  70000S  Oloned a
the roteotun  and  napcrcl, mlh on  lthouStroosesieo hunrot-       en                                                        trocoec- asI   SorIl..   Dor  to-oii
1cr Isninl       I'll  P"ertusmPI
Poculos-c co  I.,olo-Poun .1cc dfdlOnd by  oUnDer. - dpsfrtru   p0r--0crdfs
Fotlooo pr  OoncgForur-  opl ttcoAbde   ho-i o               aeho   of  Scrccocfn
mnlccdfrnoegondnorrioent,poncorel itans.nndE-neittoetnsrent.



Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
ONP PER CAPITA IN 1979   USS190
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979180                                                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH M7.. cnsotsnt Prices)
US$ Bln.          7.           1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65        1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/75      1975176-1978/79
GNP at Macket Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                 3.6                  2.8                  4.5
Gross Do-estic Investment                29.24           21,8
Gross Nat-onal S-ving                    78.55           21.3
Currect Account Balance   d/             -0.85          - 0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 197/
Value Added (at factor .o.tl            Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             %               mil.      T                US$          E of Nation.l Averse
Agriculture                           39,                39.6            181.J      71               220                 56
Industry                             25.5                25.3            28.1      11                9C6                230
Services                             35.3                35.1            46.0      18                767                195
Total/average                        30. 6              L00.3           255.4    ino                 394                lo0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                              Central Geverment
Ra. RIn.,            7 of GDP                                   Rs. Bln.             76 of GOP
1979/80       1979/80   1975176-1979O6                          1979/80        1979/80     1975/76-1979180
Correct Receipts                     208.18         19.2            18.9                              108.96         10.0            10.6
Correct Eopeedit-res                 206.44         19.0            17,7                              117.67         10.8            10.6
Correct Surplus/Deficit                1.74          0.2             1.2                              - 8.71        - 0.8              -
Capital E.pondit.res   f/             51.81          7.5             7.4                               56.93          5.2             5.1
Enternal Assistanc-  (net)  d/         7.97          0.7             0.9                                7.97          0.7             0.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71      1973/74      1974/75       1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979180       December 1979       December 1980
(R. Billion Ou.ttanding at end of period)
Money and Qual Mhoney                 109.6        175.7         194.6        222.9         272.8        329.1        398.9         468.2            448.3             521.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)        52.6         87.3         95.3        101.1          110.2        134.7        153.9        192.2             176.4             231.4
Bank Credit to Cosmerial Sector    64.6           107.0        126.7         153.9         185.0        212.2        253.5         306.5            294.7             335.9
(Percentage or I.den Number-)                                                               April-Dec 1979    April-De, 1980
M.oney and Qooni M.oney as E  of GDP   27.2         29.8         27.9          30.2          34.0         36.5         40.8          43.1
Whholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0         176.6         185.8        185.8        217.6             212.2            253.5
Annual percentage changek in:
Wholesale Price Index                   7.7         20.2          25.2        - 1.1           2.1          5.2            -          17.1              14.6             19.5
R.nk Credit to Government (net)        10.8         12.3          9.2           6.1           9.0         22.2         14.3          24.9             24.9 jM/          31.2  h/
Bank Credit to Co-seroial Sectcr    19.4            22.6          18.4         21.5          20.2         14.7         19.5          20.9             17.5  I/          14.0  h/
I/  The por capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calclated by the conversion te-hnique osed in the World Beek Atlas, 1979.
All other conveesioes to dollars in thin table are at the aversge   -change rate prevailing during tho period covered.
t/ Qocck Estimates.
*/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observ-tion before first year and one observation
After last year of listed period.
d/  World BRnk ..ti-ateO; not necessarily con.sitent with offiai.l figure-.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted oct.
f/ All loans end advances to third parties have beec netted out.
1/ Percentage change from end-December 1978 fo eod-December 1979.
h/  Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAmENTS                       1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
US$ Mln.        7.
Exports of Goods                          6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods               768 I/       11
Imports of Goods                         -7,188       -8,519    -11,249      -15,624              Tea                            462            7
Trade Balance                            - 873        -1,541     - 3,291      - 6,626             Gems                            605           9
NFS (net)                                   691          773          633         463              Clothing                       460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                            182        - 768    - 2,658    - 6.163                       Products                 425           6
Jute Manufactures              284           4
Interest Payments (net)  i/                - 89         - 35          350         303              Iron Ore                       298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -            -            -           -               Cotton Textiles                289           4
Net Transfers 1/                          1,077        1,216        1,458       2,462              Sugar                          132           2
Others                       3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                  806          413       - 850       -3.398
Total                        6a.751        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628         1,695       1,891       2,389              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                           - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                     USS billion
Transactions with DMF                     - 330        - 158          _         1,035              Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.6
All Other Items                             617          286       - 143          133              Undisbursed                                  5.7
Outstanding, including                      21.3
Increase in Reserves ()                  -2,076       -1,534       - 222          548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                 5,823        7,357        7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)   /             5,668        7,357        7,579       6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80            10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECD(BER 31. 1980
Imports                                   1,811        2,043       3,977        7,012                                                    US$ million
of which:  Petroleum                  1,811         2,043       3,977       7,012                                                 IBRD         IDA
Exports                                      32           24           26         n.a.            Outstanding and Disbursed           806         4,895
Undisbursed                        572         3,547
Outstanding, including           1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 --Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - USS0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979                US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
_/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payents are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
t/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
Apri L 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981) 1/
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                      IDA      IDA
Credit   Year of                                                    (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval         Purpose                        Bank       Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
45 Loans/                                                1,515.98        -
72 Credits fully disbursed                                    -    4,065.4
342-IN    1973      Education                                -        12.0                 2.42
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Processing & Marketing          -        13.0                 5.01
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                52.0         -                  9.15
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                          -        30.0                15.80
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                      -        83.0                28.16
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                          -        27.7                12.37
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                     -        16.4                 4.70
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply               -        40.0                13.47
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                      -       105.0                17.09
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                    -       150.0                40.11
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.             -         4.0                 1.46
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development            -        18.0                10.23
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation             145.0         -                 74.58
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                                40.0         -                 10.77
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                       25.0         -                 21.59
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                  80.0         -                 16.09
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                 25.0         -                  7.36
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development                -        30.0                22.06
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development                -        20.0                 6.98
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                  -       150.0                36.81
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development                 -        24.0                 4.08
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research           -        12.0                12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                      14.0         -                  7.23
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                  -        10.0                 5.10
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                -        23.0                13.49
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development           -         8.0                 5.46
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                   -        70.0                28.83
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension               -        13.0                 6.84
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                         -       58.0                25.71
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                       79.2         -                  7.81
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                 -       107.0                77.58
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II            -        87.0                19.11



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                      IDA      IDA
Credit   Year of                                                    (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval         Purpose                        Bank       Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                              -         8.0                6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector               25.0         -                 12.87
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power           105.0         -                 53.99
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                     -       117.6                76.35
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                      -       200.0               126.45
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture               -        14.0                13.75
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                        -       85.0                62.96
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                 -        17.5                13.97
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                         -       16.0                14.97
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII                120.0         -                 46.76
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                           -       150.0               130.60
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                   -       196.0               182.09
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                        -      111.0                39.98
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                          -      190.0               145.84
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage           -        38.0                20.17
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research            -       27.0                24.82
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension         -        25.0                15.86
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                      -       30.0                15.55
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0         -                 50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                 -       200.0               170.31
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                        -       129.0                98.57
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                  -       48.0                44.06
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II           -       175.0                95.54
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry            -        23.0                18.39
947-IN    1980      ARDC III                                 -       250.0                23.24
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                          -       20.0                19.52
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II                -       210.0               170.70
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry                -       37.0                29.62
981-IN    1980      Population II                            -        46.0                45.22
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                     -        32.0                30.44
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                           -        18.0                16.56
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                     -      175.0               164.42
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                     -       300.0               278.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                                 -       22.0                21.65
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension            -        10.0                 9.81
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                  -       56.0                53.71
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                    -        54.0                52.38



ANNEX II
Page 3 f 17
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal                                                       IDA      IDA
Credit   Year of                                                     (US$    (SDR
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank       Credits) Credits) Undisbursed
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                           -        80.0                76.65
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                      100.0         -                 66.71
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                   25.0         -                 25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                     -       225.0              201.16
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                     30.0         -                 28.92
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                        400.0         -                379.77
2050-IN*   1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                   100.0         -                100.0
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                         -          -         30.6   29.8
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                         -          -         72.4   72.4
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II               -          -         37.3   37.3
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                    -          -        128.9  128.9
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                   -          -        288.9  263.6
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation                 -          -         49.8   49.8
1125-IN*+  1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project                 -          -        368.0  368.0
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.             -          -         21.6   21.6
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.              -          -         26.2   26.2
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II                 -          -         34.7   34.7
1146-IN*   1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                   -          -        116.5  116.5
1172-IN*+  1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II          -          -        372.7  372.7
1177-IN*+  1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation           -          -        223.4  223.4
Total                                       2,931.2   8,511.6    1,771.0
of which has been repaid                 1,103.4        84.6        -
Total now outstanding                       1,T7T8    ,4727.0    T,771.0
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.3             0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/           1,827.4   8,427.0    1,771.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)               818.6   2,925.3        664.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Net yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5                 1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6       0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.0       8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0        -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       11.9    148.6
Less:   Sold                           26.0       1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.6         -      22.6
Cancelled                       -         1.3      7.5
Now Held                      81.9        8.9     90.8
Undisbursed                   66.1        1.5     67.6



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1981 totalled US$164 million, representing an
increase of about 6% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline Of US$4,408 million as of September 30, 1981, reflects the lead time
which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 19/6
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines.  Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400.0 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed. Credit 1125 is
proceeding satisfactorily with initial implementation and procurement actions
proceeding to schedule.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored.  Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effecztiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
With respect to the second project, early project implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned
under the first project are being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, thirteen subprojects have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Cor-
poration and a further five subprojects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway
though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of
project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986 -
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 3U, _l"2
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular, significant gains
have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in govern-
ment brought a review of the organizational principles underlying the new
extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a
Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the
project, revised implementation plans have been prepared, and project
activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly in key



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
supervisory and managerial posts, are severely hampering project implementa-
tion; a review is underway to reassess whether the project can be implemented
as intended. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Com-
posite Agricultural Extension Project, field work is off to a good start.
In Kerala, project implementation began in three of eleven districts after
some initial start-up delays. Early progress on civil works and initiation
of the program in the remaining eight districts will be required to regain
the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project
implementation is encouraging. Project review missions are helping sustain
project momentum.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time. Some of the coconut rehabilitation areas are being
changed based on the demand of credit from the farmers.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of December 1981, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, the construc-
tion program has progressed slightly more slowly than anticipated due to
shortages in supplies of steel and cement. Disbursements have been progress-
ing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets. Credit 1146, which was
signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construction of cooperative
godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to support the pre- and
post-harvest supply and marketing requirements in nine States; promote the
development of cooperative institutions in these States; and expand coopera-
tive subproject preparation and appraisal activities within the cooperative
sector. Project implementation has been slower than anticipated, and disbur-
sements as of December 1981 are considerably less than projected at



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
appraisal. NCDC is taking steps to ensure that adequate preparatory work is
done in all nine participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 19/9;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. Further studies are underway to assess the
socio-economic impact of such investments.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities are progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
financed and delivered in service. Total fleet strength has increased from
1,530 buses at the inception of the project to nearly 2,000 buses, in accord-
ance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion has lagged somewhat
behind fleet expansion, but caught up in November 1980.  However, delays in
construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
no- be fully recoverable. As a result, the loan closing date has been
extended by three years. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat behind
schedule, although now proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of works
under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on
the important early procurement steps. However, financial and managerial
performance is lagging behind expectations and must now receive project
authorities' full attention if physical and financial performance targets are
to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The first year program of rural road construction is underway. The
whole project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to
improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's
overall rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is being
delivered.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
As of July 1981 when the first of these projects was last reviewed,
the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of Jarnuary 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date (expected): April 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. Loan 2076 supports the development of the second
stage of the Ramagundam plant, involving the construction of three 500 MW
generating units. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are
progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works are
on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the implemen-
tation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation proceed-
ing satisfactorily in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh--in all major components except construction activities which remain
about 18 months behind appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project is designed to expand cashewnut production in the States
of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. The progress in cashew
plantations as well as other components is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded, and
consultants are preparing feasibility reports of other watershed schemes.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Kar-
nataka. Start-up activities have commenced.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Loan not yet effective. Tendering for major equipment is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
REFINERIES RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       (a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About 2 years.
(b) The agencies which have prepared the project
GOI (Ministry of Petroleum), EIL and the Refinery Companies.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
November 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
July 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 15, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 30, 1982.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI will evaluate each proposed investment in energy
efficiency and pollution control facilities and
submit to Bank for concurrence (para 46).
(b) The Government and the Refinery Companies will design,
build and operate facilities constructed under the
project with due regard for satisfactory environmental
and safety norms (para 48).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The Government will provide any funds required to cover
cost overruns (para 54).
(d) The Government will maintain prices at levels which
permit the Refinery Companies under conditions of
efficient operations to meet all their expenses, service
their debt and earn a reasonable return on invested
capital (para 54).



IBRD 15947
70  X-                                                                                                                              T >  ,>, /,  Es  9r1  ECEMRER S9Bi  t
DEM. REP. OF                             JAMMU                                                                               INDIA
REFINERIES RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN    '   r              --<            ......                   .i d
- lnd                             . .... ES PaJa    .dLANNED PCDDUCT PIPFLINES
and                                                  EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IST ISE PSOSET PIPELISES
K A S H MIR                                                          '   EIT NS CRUDE P P  ES
SI..      -. -'                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ElIST NC, REP N-EIE
51                                                                   -       H/MA rHAd , i . endlcarea b CSr, d PETRO LEJM P=DOUCTS DISTE BUT CE ZONAL BOOUN-,IES
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~1 .S AN.udu%  -i
PR'IADEH                                                   -----STATEE ANE -NIN TEREITORT BOUNDAI ES
JuIIuBdu                                        -.      ~~~~~~~~~~~I-NERAT -10 BOJ-AO ES
PAKISTAN                                                 A. _
00  t    O Bhtindd, jAasbalo                      C        H        I       N        A                 A.,                        N3
/                     1/ , ,.1
jH-ARYA EVA  |                                      -....                                                                   s     (o
Dalh
DZHI                                                                       TP,1PEO
/                            NW tqEDE/i/       W                    f  1                                   Apr </trE Bordr   S        DELHI
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tu  PRAO D  E\i BHUTAN._"Z/+
PAJAsrHAN                                                                                                                          ..irBO
to   R A J A S r H A N    <                  >                E   9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~_S,h-Bl,gaiga                                       ARUNUACHA2
B-' ~            ~                                    gllaoo                 - S.                                                             ,-j.-l        \4t '
(               ~~~~~~NORITH     /                       oprG~kpur                                                                                  PRA  S  DIA  H
__-_                                                                                 QPIRSIpBS    P  H A R          ''BANGLADESH
Ka,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5a
0  8 ; * / t * i e i , VjsokPUt9SeflgA
A2>  WESTrPA                                                                                        T <)  0   OR/SSA  \ S  0A
M A H YA             ESH                                              _''
Bornbay4HPC
t   .fS             S<VisukhOltHp                                     ~~~~Bengol/
rrabion  ;       A                    MHyderab.d
t  <      k      M    ~ANDHRA                  s
\, \ 2 R ~RA D  fS H -'-r
R SeoNA AAMI N AA
OMongolore 8-godr.0
A r aYb tiGn                           c  
-tas   Se a                     \    0,r7AM/~~~TA Z NVAD                                                                                                            ,$
CB4@LCRL |                                                              18 T1 IG18Ho       D         4GG      GG0 YILES
kA68AA2      __                                                   18   18 G1    416 /0  0    o    :18    651    !18 6GILET(4S
SRI LANKA                                                       E
P~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U b0S., -                                                                      r       0000100=  .    +01000_ .   l00_. _  . _ 10000
sl       Rsapl,e, R.                     J~R00000000



