                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 49924-NI



                              EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                            ON A

                                    PROPOSED GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.2 MILLION
                             (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                           FOR A

    HEALTH SYSTEM STRENGTHENING AND RESPONSE TO EPIDEMIOLOGICAL
                        EMERGENCIES PROJECT

                                        UNDER THE

       GLOBAL PROGRAM FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA AND HUMAN PANDEMIC
                    PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

                                      November 24, 2009




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective November 24, 2009)
                      Currency Unit = Cordova (C$)
                           20.74 C$ = US$1
                              US$1 = 0.62 SDR

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A/H1N1     Influenza A/H1N1
AHIF       Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF)
APLII      Adjustable Program Lending, Phase II
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COMISCA    Central American Commission of Ministries of Health (Comisión de Ministros de Salud
           de Centroamérica)
CPC        Committees of Citizen Power (Comité de Poder Cuidadano)
CQS        Consultant Qualifications Selection
DAF        Development Assistance fund
DEG        Developing Economies Group
DGE        Directorate of Epidemiology
DA         Designated Account
DL         Disbursement Letter
DGHS       Directorate for Health Services (Dirección General de Servicios de Salud)
DRNC       Diagnostics and Reference National Center (Centro Nacional de Diagnóstico y
           Referencia)
EA         Environmental Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FBS        Fixed Budget Selection
FM         Financial Management
FONSALUD   Nicaraguan Health Sector Support Fund (Fondo de Salud de Nicaragua)
GDEQHS     General Directorate of Extension and Quality of Health Services (Dirección General de
           Extensión y Calidad de Servicios de la Atención)
GDFA       General Directorate of Financial Administration (Dirección General de Administración
           Financiera)
GDHR       General Directorate for Health Regulations (Dirección General de Regulación Sanitaria)
GDHSHR     General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical Resources (División General de
           Abastecimientos de Salud y Recursos Físicos para la Salud)
GDPD       General Division for Planning and Development (División General de Planificación y
           Desarrollo)
GDPHS      General Directorate for Public Health Surveillance (Dirección General de Vigilancia de
           la Salud Publica)
GDTR       General Directorate for Training and Research (Dirección General de Docencia e
           Investigación)
GoN        Government of Nicaragua
GPAI       Global Program for Avian Influenza
GRAAN      Government of the North Atlantic Autonomous Region (Gobierno de la Región
           Autónoma del Atlántico Norte)
GRAAS      Government of the South Atlantic Autonomous Region (Gobierno de la Región
           Autónoma del Atlántico Sur)
HSC        Health Supply Center
IAD      Internal Audit Department (Departamento de Auditoría Interna)
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IAPP     Indigenous and Afro-Descendant People's Plan
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ID       Infectious Diseases
IDA      International Development Association ("Association")
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IFRs     Interim Financial Reports
ISDS     Integrated Safeguard Datasheet
MHCP     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Ministerio de Finanzas y Crédito Publico)
MINED    Ministry of Education
MINSA    Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOH      The Republic of Nicaragua's Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOSAC    Community Health Model (Modelo de Atención de Salud Comunitaria)
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGOs     Non Government Organizations
OM       Operational Manual
OP/BP    Operation Policy/Bank Procedure
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAHO     Pan American Health Organization
PCU      Project Coordinating Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIC      Public Information center
PID      Public Information Document
PU       Procurement Unit (División de Adquisiciones)
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RAAN     North Atlantic Autonomous Region (Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte)
RAAS     South Atlantic Autonomous Region (Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur)
RVP      Regional Vice President
SBD      Standard Bidding Document
SBDs     Standard Bidding Documents
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIGFA    System for Financial Management, Administration and Audits (Sistema de Gestión
         Financiera, Administrativa y de Auditoría)
         Secretariat for Coordination and Strategy of the Presidency
SILAIS   Local Systems of Integrated Health Care (Sistema Local de Atención Integral de Salud)
SOEs     Statement of Expenditures
SSS      Single Cost Selection
SWAp     Sector Wide Approaches
TORs     Terms of References
UIFRs    Summary Reports
UN       United Nations
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
US       United States
US$      United States Dollars
WB       World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development)
WHO      World Health Organization


                    Vice President:          Pamela Cox
                  Country Director:          Laura Frigenti
                  Country Manager            Joseph Manoharan Owen
                   Sector Manager:           Keith Hansen
                 Task Team Leader:           Rafael Cortez
                                     NICARAGUA
     Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

                                                             CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                         Page
   A.       Introduction ...................................................................................................................... 1 
   B.       Emergency Challenge: Country Context and Rationale for Bank Emergency Project .. 1 
   C.       Bank Response ................................................................................................................. 5 
   D.       Appraisal of Project Activities ....................................................................................... 11 
   E.       Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan ....................................................... 16 
   F.       Project Risks and Mitigating Measures ......................................................................... 17 
   G.       Terms and Conditions for Project Financing ................................................................. 19 

Annex 1. Detailed Description of Project Components .......................................................... 20 

Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring ........................................................................ 26 

Annex 3. Summary of Estimated Project Costs ...................................................................... 28 

Annex 4. Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements .................................... 29 

Annex 5. Procurement Arrangements ..................................................................................... 34 

Annex 6. Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements .................................................... 39 

Annex 7. Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ............................................... 44 

Annex 8: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework ................................................ 45 

Annex 9. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 51 

Annex 10. Documents in Project Files...................................................................................... 52 

Annex 11. Statement of Loans and Credits ............................................................................. 53 

Annex 12. Country at a Glance.................................................................................................. 54 

Annex 13. Map IBRD 33456 ...................................................................................................... 57 
                                      NICARAGUA

        NICARAGUA HEALTH SYSTEM STRENGTHENING AND RESPONSE TO
                 EPIDEMIOLOGICAL EMERGENCIES PROJECT
                     LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
                                LCSHH

Date: November 24, 2009                  Team Leader: Rafael A. Cortez
Country Director: Laura Frigenti         Sectors: Health (100%)
Sector Manager: Keith E. Hansen          Themes: Health system performance (50%);
Sector Director: Evangeline Javier       Other communicable diseases (50%)
Project ID: P112906                      Environmental category: B - Partial
                                         Assessment
Lending Instrument: IDA Grant            Joint IFC:
                                         Joint Level:
                              Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan [ ] Credit [X] Grant [ ]             [ ] Other:
Guarantee

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 5.00
Proposed terms: Standard IDA Grant
                               Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                    Local         Foreign           Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                            0.00           0.00            0.00
IDA Grant                                     5.00           0.00            5.00
Total:                                        5.00           0.00            5.00
Borrower:
Republic of Nicaragua
Nicaragua

Responsible Agency:
Ministry of Health (MOH)
Managua, Nicaragua
Tel: (505-2) 289-7152
dgpd@minsa.gob.ni

                       Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY            10        11       12
Annual        4.00      0.50     0.50
Cumulative    4.00      4.50     5.00
Project implementation period: Start January 29, 2010 End: December 31, 2011
Expected effectiveness date: January 29, 2010
Expected Closing date: June 30, 2012
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                   [X]Yes [ ] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                   [X]Yes [ ] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                               [X]Yes [ ] No
Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Ref. Section Bank Response
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of the Republic of Nicaragua's
health system to support the control of the spread and the effects of A/H1N1 Human
Influenza through prevention, monitoring, and treatment of affected populations, with
special attention to high risk groups.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. Section Bank
Response
Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies (US$4.2 million equivalent).
The objective of this component is to increase the Government's capacity to prevent and to
limit severe illness or death among infected populations by financing the purchase and
distribution of medicines and protective equipment for health care workers and helping the
Government supervise the timely delivery of goods to the Local Systems of Integrated
Health Care (SILAIS).

Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological Surveillance and
Prevention Programs (US$720,000 equivalent). The objective of this Component is to
strengthen the epidemiological surveillance and related early prevention programs and
systems, including the existing network of national and sub-national health laboratories, and
communication and prevention strategy.

Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring (US$80,000 equivalent): The objective
is this Component is to manage the project through the provision of procurement and
financial management services, the carrying out of the activities under the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and the Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People's Plan (IAPP), and
the carrying out of the financial audits and the technical audits.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
Environment: The main potential impacts specific to the project would be from the disposal
of expired pharmaceuticals purchased under Component 1, disposal of laboratory test kits
and personal protective equipment, and disposal of needles and syringes from
immunizations under Component 2a. No large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts
are expected. Given the potential impacts, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) is
triggered, and the project is consistent with a Category B environmental impact
classification.

Social: There are ten Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean groups in Nicaragua living on the
Caribbean Coast and Indigenous Territories of Alto Wanki and Bocay (Jinotega). A concern
for project implementation is the limited access of those groups to health care services.
These groups are isolated geographically and rely heavily on the native health networks,
which may not be aware of the intricacies of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza. Given the
presence of the above-mentioned vulnerable groups, the OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples is
triggered and the GoN should carry out a social assessment including free, prior and
informed consultations, and an Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People's Plan (IAPP) no
later than May 18, 2010. By no later than December 18, 2010 the GoN shall have submitted
to the Association the results of the Environmental and Social Audits.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

Effectiveness conditions

1)     The MOH-PAHO Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Republic of
Nicaragua and PAHO and is satisfactory to the Association.

2)     The Operational Manual has been issued by the Republic of Nicaragua and approved
by the Association.
    A. Introduction

    1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an IDA Grant
    in the amount of 3,200,000 SDR (equivalent to 5,000,000 US dollars) to the Republic of
    Nicaragua for the Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological
    Emergencies Project (P112906). The proposed Grant is being processed as an Emergency
    Operation (OP 8.00) and under the Global Program for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
    Preparedness and Response (GPAI).

    2. The proposed Grant would help finance the costs associated with the Government's effort
    to monitor, control, and reduce the number of fatalities and the risk of contraction of the
    A/H1N1 Human Influenza, which has resulted in 2,152 confirmed cases of the A/H1N1
    Human Influenza registered as of October 30, 2009, and eighteen deaths reported. Given that
    epidemiologists expect a second wave of the influenza to hit Central America beginning in the
    Fall, the Government of Nicaragua (GoN) has requested Bank support in strengthening its
    capacity to manage the spread of the virus (and other influenza viruses as well). The proposed
    Project would assist Nicaragua in improving its epidemiological surveillance system and
    providing medicines to treat infected individuals, with special attention to high risk groups.1

    3. Partnership arrangements: Given that most of the proposed Grant will be used to
    purchase medicines and laboratory equipment necessary for surveillance, the Government has
    proposed to obtain these goods directly from the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO).
    PAHO is likely to ensure rapid transactions, lower prices, high quality products, and reduced
    management risks through the use of its revolving fund.2

    B. Emergency Challenge: Country Context and Rationale for Bank Emergency
       Project

    4. In April 2009, following the outbreak of the new A/H1N1 Human Influenza in
    Mexico, the virus quickly spread into the Central America region. As of November 1,
    2009, the World Health Organization had declared a worldwide pandemic. More than 199
    countries and overseas territories have reported 482,300 laboratory confirmed cases of the
    A/H1N1 Human Influenza, and over 6,000 deaths.3 In the Americas Region, as of October
    30, 2009, a total of 185,067 confirmed cases have been notified in all 35 countries. Among the
    confirmed cases in the Region, 26 countries have reported and confirmed a total of 4,399
    deaths.4




1
  The World Health Organization recognizes high risk groups as individuals with underlying medical conditions,
pregnant women, children, elderly individuals, and health care workers.
2
  The PAHO Revolving Fund for Vaccine Procurement is a mechanism developed by the Pan American Health
Organization in 1979 for the purchase of vaccines, syringes/needles, and cold chain equipment for countries in Latin
America and the Caribbean. Through a system of bulk purchasing, the Fund has secured for the past 20 years a
supply of high quality vaccines for national immunization programs at affordable prices, and it has also allowed for
the orderly planning of immunization activities. Internet: http://www.paho.org/english/hvp/hvi/revol_fund.htm
3
  World Health Organization. Data as of November 1, 2009. http://www.who.int/csr/don/2009_11_06/en/index.html
4
  Pan-American Health Organization, Regional Update. Pandemic (H1N1) 2009. (Published on November 3, 2009).

                                                         1
     5. Epidemiologists expect a second wave of A/H1N1 Influenza to affect Central America
     beginning in the fall; and it is possible that the virus will have mutated into a more
     virulent strain. Influenza flourishes during the winter months; the virus has already spread
     through the Southern Cone (particularly in Argentina and Chile) and is expected to return to
     the Northern Hemisphere as the seasons change. The genetic fragility of viruses, the current
     high incidence of A/H1N1 among humans, and the co-occurrence with the seasonal influenza
     and other human influenza viruses make mutation likely, and an A/H1N1 mutant could be
     more contagious, more lethal and/or more resistant to treatment. This pattern would be
     consistent with that of past influenza pandemics.

      Country Context

     6. Currently the WHO reports that Nicaragua has more than 2,152 confirmed cases of
     the A/H1N1 Human Influenza, and eighteen official deaths have been reported.5 While
     the current impact on health services has been low, there is a high risk of the virus becoming
     more destructive and burdensome. The Nicaragua health system, however, is not fully
     prepared to deliver services or mitigate the effects of the virus if the number of cases were to
     increase substantially.

     7. Nicaragua's health care system faces persistent challenges, making it difficult to
     respond to the current epidemic. There are critical gaps in access and supply of basic health
     care services that leave many rural and indigenous groups (especially in the Center and the
     Atlantic regions) highly vulnerable. These areas also continue to experience the poorest
     maternal and infant health indicators in the country. These challenges are further compounded
     by other supply-side constraints including a lack of medicines, inconsistency in service,
     affordability constraints, and limited basic health care resources. As a result, these
     populations are likely to be vulnerable to external health shocks like the A/H1N1 Human
     Influenza pandemic and to additional disproportional effects on their health.

     8. Nonetheless, Nicaragua has made notable advances in terms of improving basic
     health indicators. Infant mortality has fallen from 34 per 1,000 live births in 2000 to 29 per
     l,000 live births in 2007, and the under-5 mortality rate has fallen from 43 per 1,000 in 2000
     to 36 per 1,000 in 2007. Finally, chronic malnutrition has decreased slightly from 17.8 percent
     in 2001 to 16.9 percent in 2006. These advances can be attributed to supported improvements
     in the general decentralization of services and strengthening of health care networks, and
     boosting hospital discharge rates at the local level. The latter reflects an increase in efficiency
     in the use of hospital resources, a decrease in the amount of time patients spend in hospitals,
     and an improvement in in-patient care.

     9. Additional resources are needed to support Nicaragua's supply-side deficiencies.
     Currently, Nicaragua lacks the medicines to reduce the influenza symptoms and complications
     in infected patients, and the laboratory reagents to adequately survey the spread of the
     A/H1N1 Human Influenza. In order to manage the health of severely infected patients, goods
     and training are needed to prevent severe illness or death. The WHO recommends giving


5
    Pan-American Health Organization, Regional update. Pandemic (H1N1) 2009. Published on November 3, 2009.

                                                      2
    special attention to individuals of increased risk including those with underlying medical
    conditions, pregnant women, children, elderly individuals, and health care workers.6

    10. To diminish the spread and risk of the pandemic, Nicaragua developed a National
    Plan for the Prevention and Response to the Human Influenza Epidemic, where
    interventions are estimated at just over US$20 million (see Table 1). The objectives of the
    GoN's National Plan in response to the pandemic include: (i) to prevent and mitigate the
    spread of the flu pandemic; (ii) to treat all possible cases or individuals with symptoms; and
    (iii) to strengthen control and epidemiological attention among high risk populations
    (pregnant women, lactating mothers, infants and children, health care workers, chronically ill
    people, immune-depressed, and elderly individuals).7 The Government has established
    control and preventive procedures in its health facilities and guidance to laboratories to
    manage the infection and treatment of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza.

    Table 1. Budget for the National Plan for the Prevention and Response to the Human Influenza
    Epidemic in Nicaragua
    Items                                                  Cost (in US$)        % of Budget
    Medicines                                                 $4,472,580              22.15
    Purchase and Replacement of Lab Equipment                $13,945,615              69.07
    Laboratory Reagents                                         $124,673               0.62
    Subtotal of General Inputs                               $18,542,868             91.849
    Equipment (protective) for 150 Alternative                $1,645,625               8.15
    Municipal Hospitals
    Subtotal of equipment                                     $1,645,625               8.15
    TOTAL                                                    $20,188,493                100

    11. The National Plan will be financed through the Budget, and by mobilizing external
    resources from donors. A Health Sector SWAp is currently operating in Nicaragua where
    the Government coordinates all donor activities in the sector. This mechanism has facilitated
    donor harmonization in response to the current health emergency in terms of re-directing
    funding to emerging priorities identified in the National Plan as well as ensuring that these
    efforts strengthen the health system in general. Key national and international stakeholders in
    the health sector have been supporting and harmonizing response efforts to attend to the
    A/H1N1 Human Influenza epidemic.

    12. At the country level, PAHO is providing technical assistance to strengthen
    epidemiological surveillance and communications campaigns and has lent in-kind support
    through the donation of 20,000 antiviral treatments. UNICEF is also supporting the MOH's
    communications campaign at the municipal level. The United States Agency for International
    Development (USAID) is using funds, originally designated for the Avian Flu, to support the
    training of municipal health care workers on how to prevent and treat the Influenza.
    Additionally, USAID has provided in-kind financial support for the purchase of laboratory
    reagents. The FONSALUD Group (Netherlands, Finland, Austria, Sweden and UNFPA), will

6
  World Health Organization. September 7, 2009.
ihttp://www.who.int/csr/disease/swineflu/notes/h1n1_use_antivirals_20090820/en/index.html
7
  Ministerio de Salud, República de Nicaragua. Mayo 2009. "Plan de Intervención epidemia de influenza humana."
PowerPoint presentation. Supervision mission of May 26-29, 2009.

                                                       3
finance the mechanisms and tools to strengthen epidemiological surveillance, including
assistance to establish an information system.

13. At the regional level, the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) has offered the
region US$ 5.0 million equivalent to respond to the epidemic; they are also channeling
financial support from Japan for the region. The Spanish Cooperation is currently channeling
financial resources through PAHO, in the amount of US$8.0 million, to support PAHO's
regional response.

14. The Government recognizes the need to strengthen the current surveillance system in
order to respond to this and future epidemiological emergencies. While the Government
has not specifically identified costs related to improving its surveillance system as part of the
National Plan, it is expected that donors will be able to re-direct ongoing support to this area
as needed. In particular, the Government has requested that the Bank provide financial
support for equipment, technical assistance and training to improve institutional capacity of
health facilities in data analysis, monitoring and surveillance.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

15. The Republic of Nicaragua has requested financial resources in the form of an IDA
Grant to finance activities and inputs to mitigate the impact of the outbreak of the
A/H1N1 Human Influenza and to strengthen Nicaragua's overall surveillance and public
health functions. In terms of the National Plan, the Bank would finance the purchase of
medicines needed to treat infected patients, diminishing the effects of the influenza and
reducing the number of fatalities. The Bank's comparative advantage is in its ability to
respond quickly to emergency requests for financing, and for the lead role it plays among
donors in the health sector.

16. The Bank is a natural partner in this effort due to its active role in supporting the
health sector in Nicaragua. The World Bank has a long history of working with Nicaragua
in the health sector. The current IDA financed health sector project, Health Services Extension
and Modernization Project (APL 2) (P078991) has proven to be effective through its support
and implementation of the Community Health Care Model (MOSAFC) and ensuring the
extension and improvement of basic health care services. As of October 2008, 45,167
individuals in targeted areas were receiving the basic package of health care services. Lessons
learned from its current work in the Nicaraguan health sector will be important for the
implementation and execution of the proposed Grant.

17. The Bank is also working closely with the PAHO to coordinate donor efforts.
Throughout Latin America, PAHO is actively supporting national preparedness plans,
surveillance, vaccine availability, and plans for health care workers, communication
strategies, and other needed measures. The Bank is working closely with PAHO to jointly
provide technical and advisory assistance to respond to the current emergency. The Ministry
of Health (MOH) has negotiated with PAHO the use of the revolving fund (previously
described) to purchase medicines, laboratory equipment, and medical supplies. Using PAHO
as supplier for these goods is likely to ensure rapid transactions, lower prices, high quality
products, and reduced management risks. The latter is important in order to ensure project

                                              4
    effectiveness and implementation. Currently, the Ministry of Health, the agency responsible
    for project implementation, does not have the capacity or resources to manage the volume and
    different type of supplies required to respond in a timely manner to an emergency situation

    18. The Bank brings expertise in responding to global health emergencies as evidenced
    through its response to previous and current pandemics. Established in 2005, the Global
    Program on Avian Influenza has financed 59 projects around the world to prepare and
    mitigate the effects of the Avian Influenza. The Bank has also supported governments in
    responding to the SARS epidemic and has worked extensively with Governments in Latin
    America and the Caribbean on controlling the spread of HIV/AIDS. Two projects in Latin
    America, Brazil and Argentina, were devoted entirely to strengthening national
    epidemiological surveillance systems. These projects worked to build laboratory capacity,
    train surveillance system personnel, improve information systems, and evaluate the
    surveillance systems in their respective countries. The proposed Grant will draw from these
    experiences.

    C. Bank Response

    19. Bank's strategy of emergency support. The Government has requested that the
    operation be financed from its IDA allocation on Grant terms. The speed and simplicity with
    which a new emergency operation could be prepared was a deciding factor. Additional
    Financing to the ongoing operation (Cr. 4050) was also considered as an option, but was
    rejected due to insufficient safeguard compliance and a mis-procurement issue.8

    Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

    20. Project Development Objectives. The objective of the Project is to strengthen the
    capacity of the Republic of Nicaragua's health system to support the control of the spread and
    the effects of A/H1N1 Human Influenza through prevention, monitoring, and treatment of
    affected populations, with special attention to high risk groups.

    21. The Project will finance activities aimed at mitigating the threat posed by the A/H1N1
    Human Influenza, as well as any form of the human influenza (see Table 2). Activities will
    focus on the delivery of basic medicines to treat high risk groups (pregnant women, lactating
    mothers, infants and children, health care workers, chronically ill people, immune-depressed,
    and elderly individuals) in order to reduce the negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human
    influenza in terms of morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, it will strengthen Nicaragua's
    capacity to monitor and prevent the spread of influenza viruses through improving the
    capacity of health care workers at the departmental level (e.g., laboratory facilities and
    community-based interventions), and strengthening awareness and prevention efforts.




8
 The Bank and the Borrower agreed on the appropriate action to recover the subsequent cancellation due to a mis-
procurement. The Government refunded the requested amount on November 10, 2009 and began the execution of an
action plan to mitigate and to reduce risk in the procurement processes.

                                                       5
                          Table 2. Cost of Project Components
 PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                       Budgeted Amount
 COMPONENT 1: Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies
 Subcomponent 1a: Purchase and distribution of medicines                        US$3,700,000
     Cost of medicines

 Subcomponent 1b: Protective medical equipment of periodical renewal             US$500,000
 (MPR)
     Cost of protective medical equipment of periodical renewal

 Sub-total (Component 1)                                                   US$4,200,000
 COMPONENT 2: Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological Surveillance and
 Prevention Programs
 Subcomponent 2a: Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological    US$640,000
 surveillance and related early prevention programs and systems
      Laboratory equipment and laboratory reagents                          US$300,000
      Training of health care personnel on equipment use and assess of      US$290,000
          clinic results
      Computers                                                               US$50,000

 Subcomponent 2b: Strengthen the communication and prevention strategy             US$80,000
     Dissemination of prevention and awareness information

 Sub-total (Component 2)                                                         US$720,000
 COMPONENT 3: Project Management and Monitoring                                   US$80,000
 TOTAL                                                                          US$5,000,000

Expected Outcomes

22. Success in achieving the above PDO will be assessed using the following indicators:

a. Percentage of medicines and medical supplies distributed timely to SILAIS according to
   the MOH proposed plan (Target for year 1: 90%, Target for year 2: 100%)
b. Number of public health laboratories (located in the SILAIS) conducting A/H1N1
   diagnoses (Target for year 1: 8; Target for year 2: 17).

Summary of Project Components

23. Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies (US$4.2 million
equivalent). The objective of this component is to increase the Government's capacity to
prevent and to limit severe illness or death among infected populations by financing the
purchase and distribution of medicines and protective equipment for health care workers and
helping the Government supervise the timely delivery of goods to the Local Systems of
Integrated Health Care (SILAIS). More specifically, this component will be divided into two
subcomponents:

24. Subcomponent 1a: Purchase and distribution of Medicines (US$3.7 million equivalent).
This subcomponent will support the Republic of Nicaragua's National Plan for the Prevention

                                             6
    and Response to the Human Influenza epidemic through the acquisition and distribution of
    eligible medicines and medical supplies. This will help to reduce the number of people with
    the A/H1N1 Human Influenza and the number of fatalities. The Government plans to use
    these medicines to specifically target populations who have a greater risk of contracting other
    illnesses including pregnant women, lactating mothers, infants and children, health care
    workers, chronically ill people, immune-depressed, elderly individuals, and individuals highly
    susceptible to additional health complications such as acute lower respiratory tract infections
    (pneumonia, pneumonitis, and bronchopneumonia), and sepsis.

    25. On August 21, 2009, the WHO issued guidelines for the use of antivirals and medicines in
    the management of patients infected with the A/H1N1 pandemic virus. These guidelines
    emphasized the use of specific antivirals (oseltamivir and zanamivir) to prevent severe illness
    and deaths, reduce the need for hospitalization, and reduce the duration of hospital stays.
    These antivirals, however, are noted as being most effective during the first 48 hours that the
    infected patient experiences the symptoms. Where these antivirals are not available or not
    administered during the first 48 hours, the WHO recommends that other medical treatment be
    applied to reduce the symptoms or other inflections caused by the untreated A/H1N1 virus.9

    26. Currently, the Government of Nicaragua has purchased 100,000 antivirals. These are
    available for use, but are primarily effective on individuals treated within the first 48 hours of
    infection. Furthermore, the number of antivirals is sufficient to deal with the pandemic given
    the morbidity rate occurred in other countries of the Region and the severe scenario of a
    pandemic. As a result, given the presence of high risk populations in the country, this
    component will finance the purchase of medicines (Azithromylin, amoxicillin, ibuprofen,
    ciprofloxacin, paracetamol, etc.) to treat other infections in patients with severe cases of
    A/H1N1 Human Influenza.

    27. This component will use the MOH existing mechanisms and processes for the distribution
    of medicines, goods and medical equipment to the MOH public health centers. The MOH
    will determine the criteria for the allocation of medicines/medical equipment based on the
    health needs of the country and the National Human Influenza Strategy. The Project will
    support the supervision of the execution of the proposed Government allocation of medicines
    in the country through annual performance audits.

    28. Subcomponent 1b. Protective medical equipment of periodic renewal (US$500,000
    equivalent). The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's
    Immunization Program through the provision and distribution of protective medical
    equipment for health care workers. Once a vaccine against the A/H1N1 Human Influenza
    becomes available, the activities of the subcomponent 1b will support the Immunization
    Program as a cost-effective mechanism to administer the vaccine and prevent others from
    contracting the virus.




9
  World Health Organization. September 7, 2009. Internet.
ihttp://www.who.int/csr/disease/swineflu/notes/h1n1_use_antivirals_20090820/en/index.html

                                                      7
     29. Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological
     Surveillance and Prevention Programs (US$720,000 equivalent). The objective of this
     component is to strengthen epidemiological surveillance and related early prevention
     programs and systems at the departmental level.10 Developing a strong national health system
     is vital at all stages of an epidemiological pandemic. From prevention and detection, to
     confirmation of cases, to providing care and treatment, to advising those affected, each action
     along the response chain is critical to mitigating the overall effect.

     30. Epidemiological surveillance is a key essential function in public health, since it reduces
     the impact of known diseases and identifies new or emerging diseases. This set of activities
     will strengthen existing national and departmental health laboratories in order to decrease the
     risk of possible cases. This component aims to increase awareness at the local level through
     improving the frequency and quality of laboratory testing and diagnosis; increasing capacity
     building on the use and disposal of laboratory kits; interpretation of results in Local Health
     Care System (Sistemas Locales de Atención Integral de Salud- SILAIS) laboratories; and
     developing providers' knowledge and capacity of the updated surveillance guidelines. This
     component will update current procedures for biomedical waste management in order to take
     into account the new activities, and will include capacity building measures on the proper use
     and disposal of testing. Component 2 will finance activities under two different sub-
     components:

     31. Subcomponent 2a: Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological surveillance
     and related early prevention programs and systems (US$640,000 equivalent): The objective
     of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological
     surveillance and related early prevention programs and systems, including the Republic of
     Nicaragua's existing network of national and sub-national health laboratories, through (a) the
     acquisition of laboratory equipment, laboratory reagents, and computers; (b) the updating of
     the Epidemiological Surveillance Guidelines; (c) the updating of current procedures for
     biomedical waste management and, (d) the provision of training to, among others, MOH staff,
     traditional health workers, teachers and other community leaders on: (i) the monitoring,
     treatment and prevention of the negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza; (ii) the use
     and disposal of laboratory kits; (iii) the interpretation of results in SILAIS health laboratories;
     and (iv) the updated epidemiological surveillance guidelines.

     32. Subcomponent 2b: Strengthen the communication and prevention strategy (US$80,000
     equivalent): The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's
     communication and prevention strategy through the preparation and dissemination of the
     A/H1N1 Human Influenza-related communication materials, and the carrying out of
     preventive and social communication strategies. This subcomponent will be implemented
     through the radio, local newspapers, community workshops, local brigades, and other
     communication strategies.


10
  Nicaragua has 15 "departamentos" and two Autonomous Regions (North and South Atlantic Regions). These
departamentos are the following: Boaco; Carazo; Chinandega; Chontales; Estelí; Granada; Jinotega; León;
Madriz; Managua; Masaya; Matagalpa; Nueva Segovia; Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte; Región Autónoma
del Atlántico Sur; Río San Juan; y Rivas.

                                                    8
33. This effort will build from existing synergies with the work developed by NGOs and local
communities, and other groups in the sector. This subcomponent would aim to: (i) increase
public awareness on the A/H1N1 Human Influenza in the population with especial focus on
the vulnerable groups; (ii) ensure support from civil society groups and other public
institutions; (iii) increase awareness of health sector stakeholders and personnel to respond
coordinately and effectively in case of an A/H1N1 epidemic wave; (iv) promote behavioral
change and improve of health habits at the household level to prevent and control the spread
of the virus; (v) to promote a new behavior of MOH staff to strengthen surveillance, adopt
biomedical safety procedures and reporting procedures to improve the capacity of the system
to prevent and to control A/H1N1 Human influenza epidemic waves.

34. Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring (US$80,000 equivalent): The
objective of this component is to manage the project through the provision of procurement
and financial management services, the carrying out of the activities under the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) and the Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People's Plan (IAPP), and
the carrying out of the financial audits and the technical audits.

Consistency with Country Strategy (CAS)

35. The proposed Project, while not mentioned in the current World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (39637-NI, October 11, 2007), will be added in the upcoming
CAS Progress Report scheduled for early 2010. Overall, though, the proposed objectives
and activities are consistent with the 2007 CAS's objectives in the health sector, including
strengthening health services in the poorest municipalities.

Synergies with other ongoing Bank operations

36. The proposed Grant will also be complemented by the recipient-executed activities
funded by the Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF). The purpose of AHI Facility
is to minimize the risk and socio-economic impact of avian influenza and of possible human
pandemic influenza in developing countries lacking adequate domestic resources and capacity
to prepare for and combat any onset of the disease. The proposed activities under the Trust
Fund also respond to the GoN request for financial resources to support the national
emergency response plan. This Trust Fund is being processed and it is expected to be signed
at the beginning of 2010.

37. The Trust fund, for an amount of US$300,000, has three components: (i) responding to
epidemiological emergencies through improving communication campaigns on prevention
and treatment; (ii) strengthening surveillance systems through the purchase of necessary
laboratory and basic medical equipment in a selected number of alternative health centers
where treatment can be provided during an epidemic wave; and (iii) coordinating and
evaluating the implementation of the trust fund through the financing of a performance audit
of the Emergency Project. All of these activities will be important inputs for the proposed
Project.




                                            9
     Project Monitoring

     38. The proposed Grant will be monitored closely to ensure completion of the proposed
     activities and aforementioned performance indicators. As part of the Bank's technical
     assistance to improve project implementation and monitoring, the Bank will use funds from
     the AHI Facility to support a bi-annual performance audit to note implementation progress
     and ensure that the objectives are being achieved. The Audit will verify the distribution of
     goods and equipment financed by Component 1 are distributed to the SILAIS, and the
     activities of Component 2 are executed. This performance audit will be coupled with
     quarterly reviews of the Internal Financial Reports (IFRs) and semi-annual Internal Financial
     Audit Reports. Finally, team members in Managua will supervise the implementation of the
     project. This supervision will be complimented by frequent missions and strengthening donor
     coordination to ensure efficiency in the Project's implementation.

     Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.00

     39. This Project responds to an urgent request from the Government to provide
     technical and financial assistance to manage the epidemiological emergency. The
     proposed operation is being processed under OP/BP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and
     Emergencies because it provides a rapid response in support of: (i) preserving or restoring
     essential services (OP 8.00 4 c); (ii) preserving human, institutional, and/or social capital,
     including economic reintegration of vulnerable groups (OP 8.00 4 d); and (iii) supporting
     measures to mitigate or avert the potential effects of imminent emergencies or future
     emergencies or crises in countries at high risk (OP 8.00 4 g). Also in line with the guiding
     principles of OP/BP 8.00, the Bank is working closely with other donors, including PAHO, to
     provide coordinated support.

     40. The Bank task team also decided to prepare the proposed Grant under the Global
     Program for Avian and Human Influenza Preparedness (GPAI). The GPAI, established in
     2006 in response to the avian influenza pandemic, was a Board-approved adaptable program
     lending framework of US$ 500 million that facilitates the Bank's rapid response to support
     countries in preparing for avian or human influenza epidemics. This emergency operation is
     consistent with the GPAI PDO "to minimize the threat posed to humans by highly-pathogenic
     avian influenza (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond
     to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans." The adaptable
     program loan allows for processing country-specific projects under OP/BP 8.00.11




11
  The only exception is that OP 8.00 allows for retroactive financing up to 40 percent, while the adaptable program
loan specifies a threshold of 20 percent. The proposed Grant, however, has decided not to use retroactive financing
to finance this Project.

                                                        10
     D. Appraisal of Project Activities

     Economic and Financial

     41. The economic evaluation compares the Project costs against its expected benefits.
     The estimations consider the impact of the two components of the project. In the first
     scenario, the analysis assumes that the project activities focus on monitoring the dissemination
     of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza virus, while a second scenario considers of the costs and
     benefits of project activities leading to minimize morbidity and mortality. For the latter, a
     model is estimated using inputs to estimate the number of life years lost under various
     infectious diseases, given common mortality rates. In all cases, benefits are higher than costs.

     42. The analysis suggests that implementing the proposed Project is optimal in response
     to the outbreak of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza. This is confirmed by the net benefits
     resulting from comparing the total fiscal impact this represents for the GoN with the expected
     total benefits of the intervention. Moreover, strengthening both, the Epidemiological
     Surveillance System and the capacity to respond to an epidemic, also yields positive
     externalities such as improved preparedness and capacity to respond to the future
     epidemiological emergencies.

     43. Benefits of the project exceed the costs. Under the scenario of a mortality rate
     equivalent to 3.0 times the mortality rate for seasonal influenza, and 30% attack rate12, the
     net present value of the lives saved through the activities of this project exceeds the costs of
     strengthening response capacity by a factor of 3:1. The internal rate of return for the
     proposed Project is estimated to be 38%, reflecting high benefits relative to project costs.
     Therefore, Project interventions are considered cost-effective.

     44. The Bank will support activities of the National Plan for Prevention and Response
     to the Human Influenza Epidemic, for a total of US$5.0 million equivalent. The GoN is
     committed to financing the PAHO charge for undertaking the requested procurement of
     Supplies equivalent to 3% of the cost of the supplies as set out in PAHO's procurement
     procedures, and will finance the cost of distribution of medicines and medical supplies to be
     purchased under the Project. These charges will be financed by the GoN from its own
     resources and will be allocated in the MOH budget. The recurrent cost implications of the
     proposed Project are not expected to pose a burden on Government finances.




12
   The attack rate is defined as the percentage of the population with clinical symptoms of the illness which cause a
quantitative effect (e.g. a loss of a work day). In this analysis, three different attack rates were assumed for an 8
week outbreak: 5%, 15%, and 30%. This assumption is made on the basis of former influenza epidemics and their
attack rates. The mortality rate is defined as the percentage of deaths of the population with clinical symptoms of the
illness. In this analysis, three different mortality rates were considered: Mortality rate 1 (equivalent to the mortality
rate of influenza epidemic), Mortality rate 2 ( = 2.5 times mortality rate 1) and Mortality rate 3 ( = 5.0 times
mortality rate 1).

                                                           11
Technical

45. The interventions outlined in this operation are appropriate to prevent and mitigate
the impact of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza. The project will finance the purchase of the
necessary medicines needed to protect the most vulnerable population in case of an increase in
the severity of the epidemic. Strategic reserves of vaccines, medicines and medical supplies
are critical for epidemic control, and a vaccination is a cost-effective intervention to reduce
the spread and possibly morbidity that results from influenza viruses (World Health
Organization 2009; Fleming et al. 2003). The project will also promote the surveillance
system and communication of preventive behavior at the household level which is important
for monitoring and controlling the epidemic. Training activities will be also essential to
improve delivery capacity of the Staff of the MOH. Improving the vaccination chain will be
also important in responding to the Epidemic.

46. UN agencies, PAHO, international expertise and Ministry of Health (MOH)
technical units have provided the necessary information to design the National Strategy
against the A/H1N1 Human Influenza and a set of priority interventions have been set
up. The National Plan of Prevention and Response to the Human Influenza includes the
participation of several Government agencies MOH, Ministry of Education (MINED), Arms
Forces, Civil Defense, civil society, municipalities) to address the challenges of the epidemic,
providing roles and responsibilities for the two phases of the plan: (i) preparation of activities
of control and prevention, and (ii) immediate response to the epidemic to mitigate the impact.
The project activities are fully aligned with the National Strategy and respond to the client's
needs.

Institutional

47. The coordination and implementation of Project activities will be governed by the
GoN's National plan in response to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza. The activities under
Component 1 will finance a substantial part of the needs for medicines, responding to the
National Plan's objective to control the spread of the epidemic. The activities of component 2
will support the national plan's objective for monitoring and controlling the epidemic.

48. The General Division for Planning and Development (GDPD) would serve as the Project
Coordination Unit responsible for overall project coordination and the implementation of
Components 1, 2 and 3. For Component 1, the GDPD will conduct the project implementation
in coordination with the General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical Resources
(GDHSHR) and other relevant line units within MOH. For Component 2, the GDPD will also
coordinate efforts with the General Directorate of Extension and Quality of Health Services
(GDEQHS), the General Directorate for Training and Research (GDTR), the General
Directorate for Public Health Surveillance (GDPHS), and the Diagnostics and Reference
National Center (DRNC).

49. The MOH through the General Directorate of Financial Administration (GDFA) will
continue to be responsible for financial management arrangements.

Fiduciary

                                              12
50. The initial Financial Management (FM) risk is considered Substantial for this
operation mainly due to the challenges found in the ongoing 4050-IDA Credit. There is an
ongoing action plan to fulfill the 2007 and 2008 audit recommendations. The adequacy of FM
arrangements will be continuously monitored during project supervision and adjustments will
be made when necessary to ensure fiduciary compliance.

51. The Disbursement Methods to be used are the most appropriate for the implementation
arrangements selected. This includes (a) Reimbursements (b) Advances to a Designated
Account (DA) and (c) Direct Payments to suppliers or contractors. A new US Dollar
Denominated Segregated DA will be opened at the Central Bank of Nicaragua with a Ceiling
amount of US$75,000. The frequency for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the DA
will be quarterly. All disbursements and financial transactions during project execution will
be documented by means of Statements of Expenses (SOEs), Summary Sheets and Records.
The Bank will require documentary evidence (Records) for expenditures above the SOE limits
as defined in the Disbursement Letter (DL).

52. During negotiations, the Authorized Signature Letter will be provided by the Government.
In order to expedite disbursements for emergency operations, the Bank will give priority to
the processing of Withdrawal Applications (WAs) for designated emergency operations. The
submission through country offices of faxed/scanned WAs is also permitted as a standard in
emergency situations provided that confirmation from a field-based Bank staff member is
received, that the faxed copies are identical to the original WA.

Procurement

53. Procurement under the proposed Project will be carried out by the MOH. The General
Division for Planning and Development will execute in coordination with other line Divisions
and Directories of the MOH, Component 1 and part of Component 2a (total of US$4.5
million equivalent) with PAHO as the main supplier for these components. The MOH-PAHO
Agreement is satisfactory to the Bank. The procurement for the reminder of the Project
(US$500,000) will be carried out by the Procurement Unit of the General Division for Health
Supply and Health Physical Resources.

54. The last two Post Review missions found that the Bank's Guidelines were not followed in
two processes of the existing Health Credit. Therefore the Bank has informed the Government
that these contracts should not be financed by the Bank and that the corresponding contract
amounts need to be reimbursed. On November 10, 2009, the Bank received the refund of the
full amount related to these processes. Remedial actions are being taken by the Government to
reduce the risk of deviation from Bank's procurement procedures and are being executed by
the MOH. The MOH and the Bank agreed that (i) the Procurement Unit, from the MOH, is
staffed with a procurement specialist and a procurement analyst. The recruitment of these two
consultants has been approved by the Bank. These contracts are financed by the ongoing
Health Sector Modernization Project, (ii) the MOH will purchase the necessary office
equipment for the Procurement Unit to carry out its work effectively, (iii) the MOH prepares



                                           13
the Operational Manual which will be reviewed and approved by the Bank, and (iv) the
procurement staff will attend regularly training on procurement.

55. The Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) will be used for the supply of medicines
and medical protective equipment. This is largely due to constrained Government's capacity,
resources and expertise to handle the volume and type of required supplies required. PAHO,
as a supplier, would guarantee a rapid transaction, lower prices, high quality products, and
reduced risk in terms of management.

56. PAHO cannot enter into a standard World Bank supply contract. In particular, the
provisions of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines relating to the Bank's right to inspect
accounts, records and documents of suppliers, contractors or consultants and have them
audited by auditors appointed by the Bank, are inconsistent with PAHO's single audit
principle (analogous to that of the UN), which limits access to PAHO records to PAHO-
appointed investigators and auditors. Therefore, the Bank management has supported the
request to waive (a) the Bank's policy to impose sanctions in the event of fraud and corruption
(paragraph 1.14 (d) Guidelines), and (b) the Bank's right to require certain provisions in
Bank-financed contracts that allow the Bank to inspect and audit records of suppliers and
service providers and their subcontractors and sub-consultants (Paragraph 1.14 (e)
Guidelines). The approval of the project by the Board would indicate its concurrence with the
proposed approach and its approval of the proposed waiver.

57. With respect to sanctions, it is important to note that PAHO is a multilateral agency with
privileges and immunities analogous to those of a UN agency and its own internal regulations.
Just as the Bank cannot sanction government entities, the Bank is also not in a position to
sanction this agency comprised of government shareholders. However, it is necessary to note
that in relation to the issues (a) and (b) indicated in the previous paragraph, the MOH-PAHO
Agreement includes provisions for the application of PAHO's own rules and regulations for
investigating allegations of fraud and corruption. These are the same identified in the already
existing World Bank-UNFPA-UNICEF contract. The Bank would be notified if there were
allegations of fraud and corruption, and if not satisfied with PAHO's handling of those
allegations (using its own procedures), it could request a high-level consultation with PAHO.
If still not satisfied, the Bank may require that the Borrower invoke remedies in the
Agreement (i.e. suspension, termination). It has also been agreed that PAHO would give due
regard to the Bank's list of debarred firms and alert the Bank if it intended to still contract
with a firm debarred by the Bank. In this case, expenditures tainted by fraud or corruption
would not be eligible or paid from the grant proceeds. Furthermore, while the MOH-PAHO
Agreement would respect PAHO's single audit principle (whereby an external audit of PAHO
can only be conducted regularly by its own external Auditors, the National Audit Office of the
United Kingdom and Northern Ireland appointed by PAHO's Governing Bodies) it requires
PAHO to share with the Bank these external audits within ten (10) days of these reports
becoming public documents. The MOH-PAHO Agreement would also include a mechanism
for addressing any information that "indicates the need for further scrutiny," which includes
information sharing and elevation of discussions to "high-level consultations" that may result
in an "understanding between the Government of Nicaragua, PAHO and the Bank, on any



                                            14
further actions to be taken and the timeframe for such actions" which may include a special
examination where appropriate."

Environmental

58. Adverse environmental impacts under the proposed Project would be limited as activities
are focused largely on capacity building and improved readiness for addressing
epidemiological emergencies. However, the activities under the Project could pose impacts for
public health and the environment related to biomedical waste management in laboratories,
the disposal of pharmaceuticals, and other issues that could arise from the prevention or
response to epidemiological emergencies. Given the potential impacts, OP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment) is triggered, and the Project is consistent with a Category "B"
environmental impact classification. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be
adapted from the Nicaragua Health Services Extension and Modernization Project (APL II)
and tailored to the proposed emergency operation, and will follow internationally accepted
laboratory waste management practices. An audit will be conducted of environmental
safeguards performance under the existing Health Reform Project, the results of which will
inform updates to the EMP. Additionally, capacity building measures for waste disposal have
been built into Component 2 of the Project. Given that this Project is being processed under
OP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, the Environmental Management Plan
will be updated and disclosed no later than May 18, 2010 as agreed with the MOH. An
Environmental Audit will be conducted and the results submitted to the Association no later
than December 18, 2010. A more detailed discussion of the potential impacts and next steps
going forward with the operation is presented in Annex 8.

Social

59. There are ten Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean groups in Nicaragua living on the Caribbean
Coast and Indigenous Territories of Alto Wanki and Bocay (Jinotega). A concern for project
implementation is the limited access of those groups to health care services. These groups are
isolated geographically and rely heavily on the local health networks, which may not be aware
of the intricacies of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza.

60. Given the presence of the above-mentioned vulnerable groups in the Project area, the OP
4.10 Indigenous Peoples is triggered and the GoN will carry out a social assessment including
free, prior and informed consultations, and prepare an Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean
People's Plan (IAPP). The preparation and implementation of the above assessment and IAPP
are the responsibility of the MOH, with technical assistance from the Bank. Given that this
proposed Project is being processed under the OP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies, the GoN will carry out the assessments and formulate the IAPP after project
approval. The finalized IAPP will be disclosed in-country (in Spanish) and in the Infoshop (in
English) of the Bank no later than May 18, 2010. A Social Audit, to verify compliance with
the IAPP, will be conducted and the results submitted to the Association no later than
December 18, 2010. Annex 8 further outlines the information expected to be provided for the
completion of the IAPP, in terms of strategies targeted to vulnerable groups, and the
institutional and financial arrangements for IAPP implementation.

                                            15
E. Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan

61. The MOH will carry out the activities under the proposed Project and coordinate its
implementation in order to support the National Plan for Preparedness and Response to
an A/H1N1 Human Influenza Pandemic. The project will finance the purchase of
medicines needed to reduce the number of people with the A/H1N1 Human Influenza and the
number of fatalities through Component 1. The project will also promote strengthening the
epidemiological surveillance system and communication strategy through Component 2.

62. FONSALUD and other donors, especially PAHO will provide technical assistance in
supporting the National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan and of the National Plan
for Preparedness and Response to an Influenza Pandemic. PAHO will conduct the purchase of
medicines and protective equipment for health workers included in Component 1. Using
PAHO for the supply of medicines and medical equipment is likely to ensure the rapid
transaction, lower prices, high quality products, and reduced management risks. Project
implementation will also be coordinated quarterly with other donor support in the Health
Roundtable meetings of Donors led by the Ministry of Health.

63. Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using organizational
structures and staff of the MOH. The MOH is currently implementing the ongoing Bank
Health Project, and has been assessed by Bank fiduciary specialists as having the capacity to
implement the activities under the proposed Project. Coordination among these line units has
demonstrated strong technical and managerial skills during the presence of the A/H1N1
Human Influenza in the Country. The General Division of Planning and Development
(GDPD) would serve as the Project Coordination Unit responsible for overall project
coordination and the implementation of Components 1, 2 and 3. For Component 1, the
General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical Resources (GDHSHR) will
coordinate with GDPD and PAHO on the supply of medicines, periodic reposition materials,
and laboratory reagents. Learning from the experiences of the first wave of the epidemic in the
world, the Government seeks to invest resources in the General Directorate of Public Health
Surveillance (GDPHS) to generate monitoring capacity, including the collection and analysis
of data. The GDPD, General Directorate of Extension and Quality of Health Services
(GDEQHS), General Directorate of Training and Research (GDTR) and the Diagnostics and
Reference National Center (DRNC) would be responsible to coordinate for the
implementation of Component 2. All health units would be beneficiaries of the capacity
strengthening activities under Component 2. The Government agreed to reinforce MOH
fiduciary units with a financial management specialist, procurement specialist, and
procurement analyst that have experience with Bank operations to ensure a prompt starting of
project implementation.

64. The Bank will also support technical and advisory assistance for implementing this
Project through the activities funded by the previously mentioned AHI Facility. Using a
small portion of the resources from the AHI Facility, the Bank will support the Government of
Nicaragua to hire a Trust Fund coordinator who will be responsible for the coordination of the
trust fund and the completion of performance and financial audits of the Trust Fund's

                                            16
   execution. Outcomes of these reports will be important for scaling up efforts within the GoN's
   National emergency response plan.

   F.       Project Risks and Mitigating Measures

   65. Nicaragua faces serious institutional constraints to respond promptly and effectively
   to a long and stronger wave of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza Epidemic; in particular, its
   strategic reserve of medicines and vaccines will not cover the population. Availability of
   medicines may be not sufficient to meet internal demands. The Government seeks funds to be
   able to mitigate the risk of insufficient medicines with the goal of reaching at least 30 percent
   of population, with special focus on children, pregnant women and other high risk groups. The
   Country is currently coordinating with other countries in the region to address these
   challenges jointly, taking advantage of a major negotiation capacity with joint purchases if
   needed.

   66. The GoN may confront several challenges to accomplish the outlined project
   objectives including: limited institutional capacity to procure goods in large scale and
   promptly and effectively; insufficient compliance with safeguards; and inability to
   monitor epidemiological trends. The proposed project faces three major challenges in
   implementation: (i) There is an insufficient number of trained individuals on Bank
   procurement procedures and therefore limited knowledge on executing the procurement plan;
   (ii) Coordination is weak between the RAAN/RAAS, the SILAIS, and the MOH in terms of a
   safeguards plan; and (iii) Strengthening the surveillance system requires a substantial
   investment in working practices and full involvement of medical staff. These risks will largely
   be mitigated by an investment in the Procurement Unit, training activities during the project
   implementation, and technical assistance through the implementation of the Environmental
   Management Plan and the Indigenous and Afro-Descendant People's Plan.

   67. Current fiscal constraints, as the reduction of revenues, and remittances have
   affected the response of the Government to emergencies and its availability to finance
   additional needed expenditures in social sectors. Although, the Government has shown a
   strong interest in addressing the impacts of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza, it is clear that the
   necessary funds to complete the implementation of the national plan to respond to the arising
   epidemic are unlikely to exist. Even availability of donor funds is not fully secured for
   A/H1N1 Human Influenza Surveillance, prevention and mitigation activities in 2009.

                                           Table 3. Project Risks
Risk factors               Description of risk                              Mitigation measures

Technical         During preparation of this emergency     The proposed Grant will support a portion of the funds
 Design           package, it became clear that            allocated for medicines in the National Plan in order to
                  Nicaragua would need medicines to        ensure that Nicaragua has a sufficient stockpile of
                  mitigate and prevent the impact of the   reserves.
                  epidemic.
                  Purchasing medicines and their use       Once a vaccine is developed, the MOH will work
                  involve a number of issues, which        closely with the GRAAN and the GRAAS to target high
                  include: (i) building resistance to a    risk individuals in the indigenous communities, and


                                                       17
Risk factors               Description of risk                                 Mitigation measures

                 common medicine; (ii) Insufficient          with the poorest municipalities to ensure that all high
                 amount of medicines to reach all            risk groups are vaccinated. Due to the relatively limited
                 vulnerable populations; (iii) limited       estimated global production of the vaccine, the MOH
                 capacity to deliver the medicines in a      will coordinate with other countries in the Region to
                 timely and effective manner.                strengthen its purchasing power in the global market.

Implementation   The MOH is implementing the project         The Government and the Bank have agreed on several
 capacity and    using its own structures and staff.         risk mitigating measures including the hiring of a
 Procurement     Over the past year, the procurement         procurement specialist and an additional analyst in the
                 unit's performance has been less than       MOH both, with experience in Multilateral Bank-
                 acceptable.       Without      adequate     financed projects, an intensive training program for
                 technical capacity and physical             procurement staff in the Procurement Unit and the
                 resources (computers, telephone, file       review of all procurement processes. As of today, the
                 cabinets, etc.), it will be difficult for   MOH has hired individuals for these two positions.
                 the Unit to improve its performance         Additionally, the MOH will provide the minimum
                 and guarantee a safe environment in         working condition to the Procurement Unit through the
                 procurement. The agreed upon action         purchase of the basic and required logistical equipment
                 plan has been partially executed, and       using funds from the ongoing health operation.
                 the risk is substantial.
Commitment       The Government is highly committed          The proposed Project will fund a portion of the GoN's
 and financing   to the objectives of its National Plan      National Plan for the Prevention and Response to the
                 for the Prevention and Response to the      A/H1N1 Human Influenza Epidemic. Monitoring and
                 A/H1N1 Human Influenza Epidemic.            supervising will encourage continued collaboration on
                 Nevertheless, the GoN may not have          the Plan between the Bank and the MOH.
                 the resources to invest in the Plan as
                 they had planned.
Financial         The proposed activities would be           The MOH has agreed to implement an Action Plan to
 Management       implemented at the national level,         improve the financial management performance for the
                  using the Bank's norms and country-        health sector. The Bank team is monitoring the situation
                  level FM systems. The 2007 financial       closely and is prepared to take additional measures if the
                  audit identified some fiduciary            FM challenges are not addressed effectively.
                  issues. These issues could affect the
                  financial     management      of     the
                  proposed project if not addressed
                  soon.
Safeguards        Social: Medicines are focused in            Social: The MOH has agreed to formulate an
                  urban areas with a limited targeting        Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People's Plan (IAPP)
                  strategy to vulnerable groups,              jointly with the representations of Indigenous and Afro-
                  especially in the Atlantic Region           Caribbean peoples, particularly the Regional
                  (RAAN and RAAS). Implementation             Governments of the RAAN and RAAS and their
                  may be weak and will need to be             respective Health Secretariats, to ensure access of
                  reinforced with the assistance of           vulnerable groups to the proposed Project benefits, and
                  PAHO, NGOs and the cooperation of           that the services provided are delivered in a culturally-
                  other donors working in the country.        adequate manner. The IAPP will include the strategy to
                                                              monitor service delivery to indigenous and afro-
                 Environment: Expired                         Caribbean peoples; a social communication strategy by
                 pharmaceuticals, personal protective         culturally-appropriate means; a strategy to provide
                 equipment, and other biomedical              emergency transportation for high risk cases, including
                 waste could be disposed of                   in isolated areas; a sensitivity training strategy for
                 improperly, causing health risks and         health staff; a capacity building strategy for the
                 environmental contamination.                 traditional health network (traditional therapists,
                                                              midwives, bone-setters, and others) to comprehend the
                                                              origin and treatment of the A/H1N1; and a community

                                                         18
Risk factors           Description of risk                             Mitigation measures

                                                     training strategy (bilingual).

                                                     Environment: The project will include updates to
                                                     current procedures for biomedical waste management
                                                     in order to take into account the new activities.
                                                     Additionally, Component 2 will include capacity
                                                     building measures specific to the proper use and
                                                     disposal of testing.

                                                     The policies triggered are: Operational Policy 4.01
                                                     Environmental Assessment; and Operational Policy
                                                     4.10 Indigenous Peoples.


   G. Terms and Conditions for Project Financing

   68. Project Financing Instrument: The proposed Project will be financed through the use of
   an IDA Grant to the Republic of Nicaragua. These funds would be allocated on a priority
   basis to support the Government of Nicaragua's A/H1N1 Human Influenza National Strategic
   Plan.

   69. There are two additional conditions for Project Effectiveness:

    (a) The MOH-PAHO Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Republic of Nicaragua
        and PAHO and is satisfactory to the Association.

    (b) The Operational Manual has been issued by the Republic of Nicaragua and approved by
        the Association.

   70. The Government of Nicaragua will request the Bank's no-objection for the issuance
   of a direct contract with PAHO. This option has been assessed and the Bank and the
   Government consider that no other effective alternative exists in order to ensure the timely
   delivery of the medicines, laboratory supplies and equipment. This is largely due to a lack of
   capacity, resources and expertise to handle the volume and type of supplies required within
   the MOH. Furthermore, the weak procurement capacity of the MOH has been confirmed by
   the recent assessment carried out by the Bank. It is expected that PAHO, as a supplier, will
   guarantee a rapid transaction, lower prices, high quality products, and reduced risk in terms of
   management. PAHO can also easily identify reliable providers due to its long experience in
   supplying medicines and related medical equipment. The proposed MOH-PAHO Agreement
   incorporates the same provisions on fraud and corruption as established in a previously signed
   the World Bank-UNICEF­UNFPA contract, which substantially addresses this situation. The
   MOH will request a final No Objection from the Association for the signed MOH-PAHO
   Agreement.




                                                19
                       Annex 1. Detailed Description of Project Components
     Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

     The A/ H1N1 Human Influenza in Nicaragua

     1. The recent outbreak of the new A/H1N1 Human Influenza poses further and new
     challenges to the fragile health system, threatens recent gains in social and health
     sectors, and puts vulnerable groups at a higher risk for infection and mortality due to
     limited access to basic healthcare services. The Government of Nicaragua is not adequately
     prepared to cope with the possibility of an outbreak and requires immediate financial and
     technical support in order to adequately prepare for an epidemic and attempt to prevent its
     outbreak.

     2. As of November 1, 2009, worldwide, there have been more than 482,300 laboratory
     confirmed cases of pandemic influenza A/H1N1 and over 6,071 deaths reported to
     WHO. Many countries have stopped counting individual cases, particularly where
     many individuals have presented milder symptoms. As a result, the case count is
     significantly lower than the actual number of cases that have occurred. Nonetheless, the
     WHO is actively monitoring the progress of the pandemic through frequent consultations
     with the WHO Regional Offices and member states and through monitoring of multiple
     sources of data.

     3. In Nicaragua, a widespread epidemic has been reported in 60 municipalities
     throughout the country mainly in people between 20 and 34 years of age. As of October
     30th, 2009, Nicaragua has reported 2,152 confirmed cases of the A/H1N1 Influenza
     registered and eighteen deaths, with a limited impact on health services.13 However,
     seven countries in the region, many of whom are better-positioned than Nicaragua (among
     them Argentina, El Salvador, and Guatemala), have already reported negative though
     moderate impacts on their health systems. Therefore, despite the relatively low incidence of
     the virus in Nicaragua, the potential outbreak could have a devastating impact due to
     Nicaragua's fragile fiscal state and poorly organized health systems, placing vulnerable
     groups (pregnant women, children, elderly individuals and health workers) at a very high risk
     for rapid infection and higher mortality.

     4. In an effort to prevent a widespread epidemic and in response to the global
     outbreak, on June 3, 2009, the Republic of Nicaragua sent an official letter soliciting
     financial resources in the form of an IDA Grant to finance activities and inputs to mitigate
     the impact of the outbreak of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza pandemic and to strengthen
     Nicaragua's overall surveillance and public health functions.

     5. To diminish the spread and risk of the pandemic, Nicaragua developed a
     coordinated response to the pandemic. In response to the global pandemic, the GoN
     developed a National Plan for the Prevention and Response to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza
13
   Regional Update Pandemic (H1N1) Report, 2009. World Health Organization. October 2, 2009. "Epidemic and
Pandemic Alert and Response." The data and information in this report is updated on a weekly basis and available
at: http://new.paho.org/hq/index.php?option=com_content&task=blogcategory&id=814&Itemid=1206

                                                       20
     Epidemic, where interventions are estimated at just over US$20 million (see Table 1). The
     objectives of the GoN's National Plan in response to the pandemic include: (i) to prevent and
     mitigate the spread of the flu pandemic; (ii) to treat all possible cases or individuals with
     symptoms; and (iii) to strengthen control and epidemiological attention among high risk
     populations.14 The Government has established control and preventive procedures in health
     facilities and guidance to laboratories to manage the infection and treatment of the A/H1N1
     Human Influenza.

     6. This GoN's National Plan is in line with the framework for the World Bank's
     Global Program for the Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness
     and Response (GPAI). The GPAI aims to enhance prevention and preparedness capability,
     strengthen public health surveillance, and strengthen health system response capacity.
     Although the GoN's National Plan does not include animal control, precautionary efforts are
     being made at the national and local level to ensure that animals are monitored. There is
     always the risk that the human virus will mutate through animals.

     Government actions

     7. The first case of A/H1N1 Human Influenza was detected in April 2009, and its existence
     has since been confirmed at different localities throughout the country. When the GoN
     authorities of the Region received official confirmation of the virus' presence in the country,
     all countries of the Region participated in a meeting held in Managua, Nicaragua in April
     2009 (Comite Ministerial de Salud de Centro America, COMISCA) and signed agreements
     to coordinate their efforts to respond to the A/H1N1 epidemic. Following the meeting, the
     GoN prepared the National Plan on Human Pandemic Emergency Preparedness and
     Response. Furthermore, the donor community mobilized resources in support of this plan
     and offered technical advice, proposing: (i) a comprehensive diagnosis on a national scale to
     get a clear picture of the situation; (ii) the design and implementation of an adequate
     communication campaign; and (iii) the immediate purchase of medicines to respond to a
     potential epidemic-outbreak.

     8. The MOH has been able to detect cases early on. On June 1, 2009 (Ministerial resolution
     No 164-2009) the A/H1N1 Human Influenza was included in the list of interventions to be
     monitored, and it was mandated that all public and private Health facilities report any
     suspected cases. PAHO continued supporting the purchase of diagnostic tools and prepared a
     guide of Basic practices for A/H1N1 to be used for all UN staff. On August 27, 2009, the
     GoN announced a State of Sanitary Emergency and mobilized 10,000 volunteers from the
     CPC (Committees of Citizen Power) to support the prevention and monitoring efforts of the
     MOH. Currently, the MOH has confirmed that there are 100,000 treatments for adults and
     10,000 for children available to respond to the epidemic.




14
  Ministerio de Salud, República de Nicaragua. Mayo 2009. "Plan de Intervención epidemia de influenza humana."
PowerPoint presentation. Supervision mission of May 26-29, 2009.

                                                      21
Project Components

9. Project Development Objectives. The objective of the Project is to strengthen the
capacity of the Republic of Nicaragua's health system to support the control of the spread
and the effects of A/H1N1 Human Influenza through prevention, monitoring, and treatment
of affected populations, with special attention to high risk groups.

10. The project will finance activities aimed at mitigating the threat posed by the A/H1N1
Human Influenza, as well as any form of the Human Influenza (see Table 4). Activities will
focus on the delivery of basic medicines to treat high risk groups (pregnant women, lactating
mothers, infants and children, health care workers, chronically ill people, immune-depressed,
and elderly individuals) in order to reduce the negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human
Influenza in terms of morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, it will strengthen Nicaragua's
capacity to monitor and prevent the spread of influenza viruses through improving the
capacity of health care workers at the departmental level (e.g., laboratory facilities and
community-based interventions), and strengthening awareness and prevention efforts.


                         Table 4. Cost of Project Components
 PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                     Budgeted Amount
 COMPONENT 1: Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies                    US$4,200,000

 COMPONENT 2: Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's                       US$720,000
 Epidemiological Surveillance and Prevention Programs
 COMPONENT 3: Project Management and Monitoring                               US$80,000
 TOTAL                                                                      US$5,000,000


Summary of Project Components

11. Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies (US$4.2 million
equivalent). The objective of this component is to increase the Government's capacity to
prevent and to limit severe illness or death among infected populations by financing the
purchase and distribution of medicines and protective equipment for health care workers and
helping the Government supervise the timely delivery to the goods to the Local Systems of
Integrated Health Care (SILAIS). More specifically, this component will be divided into two
subcomponents:

Subcomponent 1a: Purchase and distribution of Medicines (US$3.7 million equivalent). This
subcomponent will support the Republic of Nicaragua's National Plan for the Prevention and
Response to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza epidemic through the acquisition and distribution
of eligible medicines and medical supplies. This will help to reduce the number of people
with the A/H1N1 Human Influenza and the number of fatalities. The Government plans to
use these medicines to specifically target populations who have a greater risk of contracting
other illnesses including pregnant women, lactating mothers, infants and children, health care
workers, chronically ill people, immune-depressed, elderly individuals, and individuals


                                           22
     highly susceptible to additional health complications such as acute lower respiratory tract
     infections (pneumonia, pneumonitis, and bronchopneumonia), and sepsis.

     12. On August 21, 2009, the WHO issued guidelines for the use of antivirals and medicines
     in the management of patients infected with the A/H1N1 pandemic virus. More specifically,
     these guidelines emphasized the use of specific antivirals (oseltamivir and zanamivir) to
     prevent severe illness and deaths, reduce the need for hospitalization, and reduce the duration
     of hospital stays. These antivirals, however, are noted as being most effective during the first
     48 hours that the infected patient experiences the symptoms. Where these antivirals are not
     available or not administered during the first 48 hours, the WHO recommends that other
     medical treatment be applied to reduce the symptoms or other inflections caused by the
     untreated A/H1N1 virus.15

     13. Currently, the Government of Nicaragua has purchased 100,000 antivirals. These are
     available for use, but are primarily effective on individuals treated within the first 48 hours of
     infection. Furthermore, the number of antivirals is sufficient to deal with the pandemic given
     the morbidity rate occurred in other countries of the Region and the severe scenario of a
     pandemic. As a result, given the presence of high risk populations in the country, this
     component will finance the purchase of medicines (Azithromylin, amoxicillin, ibuprofen,
     ciprofloxacin, paracetamol, etc.) to treat other infections in patients with severe cases of
     A/H1N1 Human Influenza.

     14. This component will use the MOH existing mechanisms and processes for the
     distribution of medicines, goods and medical equipment to the MOH public health centers.
     The MOH will determine the criteria for the allocation of medicines/medical equipment
     based on the health needs of the country and the National Human Influenza Strategy. The
     Project will supervise the execution of the proposed Government allocation of medicines in
     the country through annual performance audits.

     15. Subcomponent 1b. Protective medical equipment of periodical renewal (US$500,000
     equivalent). The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's
     Immunization Program through the provision and distribution of protective equipment for
     health care workers. Once a vaccine against the A/H1N1 Human Influenza becomes
     available, the activities of the subcomponent 1b will support the Immunization Program as a
     cost-effective mechanism to administer the vaccine and prevent others from contracting the
     virus.

     16. Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological
     Surveillance and Prevention Programs (US$720,000 equivalent). The objective of this
     component is to strengthen epidemiological surveillance and related early prevention
     programs and systems at the departmental level.16 Developing a strong national health system


15
   World Health Organization. September 7, 2009. Internet.
ihttp://www.who.int/csr/disease/swineflu/notes/h1n1_use_antivirals_20090820/en/index.html
16
   Nicaragua has 15 "departamentos" and two Autonomous Regions (North and South Atlantic Regions). These
departamentos are the following: Boaco; Carazo; Chinandega; Chontales; Estelí; Granada; Jinotega; León;

                                                     23
    is vital at all stages of an epidemiological pandemic. From prevention and detection, to
    confirmation of cases, to providing care and treatment, to advising those affected, each action
    along the response chain is critical to mitigating the overall effect.

    17. Epidemiological surveillance is a key essential function in public health, since it reduces
    the impact of known diseases and identifies new or emerging diseases. Specifically, this set
    of activities will strengthen existing national and departmental health laboratories in order to
    decrease the risk of possible cases. This component aims to increase awareness at the local
    level through improving the frequency and quality of laboratory testing and diagnosis;
    increasing capacity building on the use and disposal of laboratory kits; interpretation of
    results in Local Health Care System (Sistemas Locales de Atención Integral de Salud-
    SILAIS) laboratories; and developing providers' knowledge and capacity of the updated
    surveillance guidelines. This component will update current procedures for biomedical waste
    management in order to take into account the new activities, and will include capacity
    building measures on the proper use and disposal of testing.

    18. Subcomponent 2a: Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological surveillance
    and related early prevention programs and systems (US$640,000 equivalent): The objective
    of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological
    surveillance and related early prevention programs and systems, including the Republic of
    Nicaragua's existing network of national and sub-national health laboratories, through (a) the
    acquisition of laboratory equipment, laboratory reagents, and computers; (b) the updating of
    the Epidemiological Surveillance Guidelines; (c) the updating of current procedures for
    biomedical waste management and, (d) the provision of training to, among others, MOH
    staff, traditional health workers, teachers and other community leaders on: (i) the monitoring,
    treatment and prevention of the negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza; (ii) the use
    and disposal of laboratory kits; (iii) the interpretation of results in SILAIS health
    laboratories; and (iv) the updated epidemiological surveillance guidelines.

    19. Subcomponent 2b: Strengthening the communication and prevention strategy
    (US$80,000 equivalent): The objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the Republic of
    Nicaragua's communication and prevention strategy through the preparation and
    dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza-related communication materials, and the
    carrying out of preventive and social communication strategies. This subcomponent will be
    implemented through the radio, local newspapers, community workshops, local brigades, and
    other communication strategies.

    20. Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring (US$80,000 equivalent): The
    objective is this component is to manage the project through the provision of procurement
    and financial management services, the carrying out of the activities under the Environmental
    Management Plan (EMP) and the Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People's Plan (IAPP), and
    the carrying out of the financial audits and the technical audits.



Madriz; Managua; Masaya; Matagalpa; Nueva Segovia; Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte; Región Autónoma
del Atlántico Sur; Río San Juan; y Rivas.

                                                   24
21. The Directorate of Public Health Surveillance (GDVSP) is responsible for surveillance
and analysis of data of government health programs, and for the Information System (HIS).
The project would support extending the system to cover surveillance of influenza-like
illnesses in humans, and train the MOH on how to adequately respond to cases of A/H1N1
Influenza. The Component would aim to strengthen the capacity of MOH staff to undertake
preventive and mitigation measures, effectively enabling them to be on proactive surveillance
mode and adequate readiness state.




                                           25
                                Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring

                                             Results Framework

            PDO                                Project Outcome Indicators                      Use of Project
                                                                                                  Outcome
                                                                                                Information
To strengthen the capacity           Percentage of medicines and medical supplies           To assess the impact
of the Republic of                  distributed timely in the SILAIS according to MOH       of response
Nicaragua's health system           proposed plan
to support the control of the        Number of public health laboratories (located in the
spread and the effects of           SILAIS) conducting A/H1N1 diagnoses
A/H1N1 Human Influenza
through the prevention,
monitoring, and treatment
of affected populations,
with special attention to
high risk groups
    Intermediate results                             Result indicators                      Use of Intermediate
                                                                                                 Outcome
                                                                                                Monitoring
Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies
                             Number of weeks of delayed deliver for medicines         To evaluate impact
                               procured by PAHO                                       of response
Respond to Epidemiological
Emergencies                  Proportion of SILAIS that have at least the minimum
                               defined stock of A/H1N1 Human Influenza related        To assess progress
                               medicines.
Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological Surveillance and Prevention
Programs
                             Percent of SILAIS compliant with surveillance To assess progress
                               guidelines, receiving a satisfactory or better rating
2a. Strengthen the Republic  Number of laboratories certified on control of A/H1N1    To evaluate impact
of Nicaragua's                 influenza                                              and effectiveness
epidemiological              Number of hospitals with staff certified in infection
surveillance and related       control and case management
early prevention programs    Number of professionals and support personnel trained
and systems                    with surveillance guidelines
                             Number of health workers trained on how treat,
                               diagnosis, care for victims

                                    Percentage of heads of household aware of prevention    To evaluate
2b. Strengthen the                  measures against A/ H1N1                                effectiveness
communication and
prevention strategy




                                                         26
                                                      Arrangements for results monitoring
                                                                                                Data Collection and Reporting
                  Project Outcome Indicators                      Baseline     YR1       YR2    Frequency       Data Collection    Responsibility
                                                                                                   and           Instruments         for Data
                                                                                                 Reports                            Collection
(i)      Percentage of medicines and medical supplies distributed      0     90%         100%   Quarterly   MOH records and        Ministry of
         timely to SILAIS according to the MOH proposed plan                                                Performance Audit      Health
(ii)     Number of public health laboratories (located in the          0     8           17     Quarterly   MOH records and        Ministry of
         SILAIS) conducting A/H1N1 diagnoses                                                                Performance audit      Health
                  Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component 1. Respond to Epidemiological Emergencies
Number of weeks of delayed deliver for medicines procured by           0     0           0       Once        PAHO reports and      Ministry of
PAHO                                                                                                         audit report          Health
Proportion of SILAIS that have at least the minimum defined stock      0     70%         100% Once           Ministry of Health    Ministry of
of A/H1N1Human Influenza related medicines                                                                   Reports               Health
Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua's Epidemiological Surveillance and Prevention Programs
2a. Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological surveillance and related early prevention programs and systems
Percent of SILAIS compliant with surveillance guidelines, receiving 0        60%         100% Quarterly      Quarterly reports     Ministry of
a satisfactory or better rating                                                                  report                            Health
Number of laboratories certified on control of A/H1N1 Human            0     1           4       Once a      Performance audit     Ministry of
influenza                                                                                        year                              Health
Number of hospitals with staff certified in infection control and case 0     15          27      Once a      Performance audit     Ministry of
management                                                                                       year                              Health
                                                                       0     100         200     Twice a     Bi-annual report      Ministry of
Number of professionals and support personnel trained with
                                                                                                 year        Ministry of Health    Health
surveillance guidelines
                                                                                                             Performance audit
Number of health workers trained on how to properly diagnosis,         0     1000        2000    Twice a     Bi-annual report      Ministry of
treat, and care for victims                                                                      year        Ministry of Health    Health
                                                                                                             Performance audit
2b. Strengthen the communication and prevention strategy
                                                                       0     50%         80%     Once a      Annual report,        Ministry of
Percentage of heads of household aware of prevention measures
                                                                                                 year        Ministry of Health,   Health
against A/H1N1
                                                                                                             Performance Audit



                                                                        27
                    Annex 3. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project


                                                      Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity
                                                    US $million   US $million   US $million
Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological              4.2           4.2           4.2
Emergencies.
Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of              0.720         0.720             0.720
Nicaragua's Epidemiological Surveillance and
Prevention Programs
Component 3; Project Management and                     0.080         0.080             0.080
Monitoring
Total Baseline Cost                                     5.0           5.0               5.0
 Physical Contingencies
 Price Contingencies
                            Total Project Costs1        5.0           5.0               5.0

                                  Front-end Fee
                      Total Financing Required          5.0           5.0               5.0




1
Identifiable taxes and duties are US$0 m and the total project cost, net of taxes, is
US$5.0m. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 0%.




                                               28
        Annex 4. Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

   1. The initial Financial Management (FM) risk is considered substantial for this
   operation mainly due to the weakness found in the ongoing 4050-IDA Credit for
   which there is an ongoing action plan to addresss the 2007 and 2008 audit
   recommendations. The adequacy of financial management arrangements will be
   continuously monitored during project supervision and adjustments made when
   necessary to ensure fiduciary compliance. A Financial Management assessment was
   carried out to determine FM implementation risk and help establish adequate FM
   arrangements for this proposed Project. Based on the assessment, recommendations
   and complementary actions have been agreed to ensure that the Project is
   implemented within a sound fiduciary environment in compliance with Bank
   requirements.

   2. The Ministry of Health through the General Directorate of Financial
   Administration (GDFA) will continue to be responsible for financial management
   arrangements. It will also consolidate the financial registration in the Project
   Financial Management Information System (SIGFA), produce financial reports and
   perform reconciliation of accounts. On the FM side, the latest project performance of
   the ongoing Cr 4050-NI has been rated as Moderately Satisfactory with Substantial
   Risk. The auditors for the 2007 and 2008 audits identified some observations which
   MOH is in the process of addressing. An action plan has been agreed with the MOH
   to solve these issues (questionable advances, ineligible expenses and some internal
   control issues). The action plan addresses each issue both for FM and Procurement.
   The present FM assessment identified some MOH institutional weaknesses.
   Accordingly, an Action Plan (detailed below) has been agreed with MOH through the
   GDFA to strengthen its financial management capacity.

   3. Staffing. Currently, GDFA staff includes a General Director, Financial and
   Budget Responsible, Administrative Director and International Financing Director.
   The International Financing Director supervises a Financial Specialist, a Budget
   Officer and a Cashier. The staff has direct experience with Bank-financed projects.

   4. Accounting System. The GDFA will use the Project Financial Management
   Information System (SIGFA) to report on cash basis. SIGFA is currently being
   implemented in the GDFA. SIGFA is hosted by the Ministry of Finance and Public
   Credit and includes modules for planning, budgeting, treasury, accounting, and
   reporting.

   5. Project Financial Reporting. On a quarterly basis, the GDFA will prepare
   Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) to be submitted to the Association. These reports
   will contain: (i) Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (with expenditures classified
   by disbursement category) and Cash Balances; and (ii) Statement of Budget
   Execution (with expenditures classified by subcomponent); along with the



                                          29
reconciliation of segregated accounts with project records and Budgetary execution in
SIGFA.

6. The Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) will be submitted to the Association not
later than 45 days after the end of each quarter. This review will enhance FM
supervision, enabling a periodic control over project accounts that will complement
planned supervisions, thus helping to mitigate fiduciary risk.

7. External Audit. An external, independent, private firm acceptable to the Bank
will be contracted by MOH no later than six months after effectiveness to cover the
US$ 500,000 remaining funds to be executed by MOH. The report will cover the
calendar year, which coincides with the fiscal period. The audited financial
statements shall be presented to the Association not later than six months after the end
of the fiscal period. A one-time audit is expected for the whole operation. TORs and
Short List should be reviewed and accepted by the Association. Also, alternative
assurance methods of financial arrangement adequacy will be developed in the
supervision strategy discussed in paragraph 16.

8. Internal Control. MOH is subject to the control of the Internal Audit Department
(IAD) and the Country's General Comptroller (Contraloría General de la República).
Under international standards, the IAD is expected to include the revision of this
Project's financial documentation in the internal audit plan.


                    Table A.6. 1 ­ Audit Report/MOH DAF
                   Audit Report                             Due Date
  1) Project Financial Statements                            June 30
  2) Special Opinions                                        June 30
       Summary Reports (UIFRs)                               June 30
      (used for reporting purposes)
       Designated Account (Special Account)                  June 30

9. Flow of funds. Considering that this operation is a Grant, a new Designated
Account will be opened with an authorized ceiling of US$75,000. This initial amount
could be changed and amended in the Disbursement Letter upon specific request. The
Designated Account will be opened in the Central Bank of Nicaragua under the
control of the Treasury from where the funds will be transferred to MOH-GDFA's
operating accounts (Fondo Rotatorio) to finance expenditures made, or to be made
within 30 days.

10. Also, the Designated Account shall be accounted under the traditional mechanism
of replenishment by Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method and copies of records
would be used to support disbursement during the whole execution of the Grant.
Disbursements will be made against standard documentation, and documentary
evidence will be sought by the Association for expenditures above thresholds in the
Disbursement Letter. The Disbursements for the proposed Project will be through
standard and approved Association disbursement methods, which will be defined in


                                        30
   the Disbursement Letter. These will include Reimbursements, Advances, and Direct
   Payments.

   11. Considering that approximately 90% of this Grant will be to purchase medicines,
   there will be an agreement between MOH and PAHO who will be responsible for the
   medicines contract process. The Association will make direct payments to PAHO.
   The supporting documentation for the direct payment requests to PAHO will be
   Annex V ­ Planilla para Solicitud de pago of the MOH-PAHO Agreement.

   12. Under the Grant, the following disbursement methods may be used:
        Reimbursement
        Advances
        Direct payment

   13. All consolidated SOEs documentation will be maintained for post review and
   audit purposes for up to one year after the final withdrawal of the Designated
   Account.

   Risk Assessment and Mitigation

   14. Risk Rating. Overall FM initial risk is rated as Substantial. The FM design,
   which includes a series of additional measures, responds to the identified risk and
   proposes a suitable supervision strategy. The adequacy of FM arrangements would
   be continuously monitored during project supervision, and adjustments made when
   necessary to ensure fiduciary compliance. Table A.6.2 presents the risk assessment
   and mitigating measures incorporated into Project design and the FM implementation
   arrangements to reduce the level of risk.

                Table A.6.2 Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures
Risk                     Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures
                         Rating
Inherent Risk
Country Level            S
Entity Level             M
Project Level            S         Prepare chapter on basic FM procedures to be included
                                   in the Operations Manual.
                                   Relevant staff to attend specific FM & Disbursement
                                   training.
                                   Completion of the Action Plan agreed to overcome
                                   2007 and 2008 audit observations.
                                   Contract external audit for the implementation period
                                   of the project. Relatively rapid execution is expected.
Control risk
Budgeting, Accounting,   M         Utilization of SIGFA
Internal Control
Funds Flow               S         Segregated account in dollars, under traditional
                                   mechanism of replenishment by SOE method


                                         31
Financial Reporting,                S               Quarterly Reports.
Auditing                                            Annual Audit Financial Statements.
FM Risk                             S


       15. Financial Management Action Plan. An Action Plan has been agreed upon with
       MOH-GDFA to ensure that adequate FM systems are in place before implementation
       begins. The detailed activities are presented in Table A.6.3.

                                  Table A.6. 3 Action Plan for MOH-DAF
                               Action                                Responsible             Completion Date17
                                                                       Entity
      1. Finalize the modifications to the FM                        MOH-GDFA               November 2009
      section of the Operations Manual                                                      (completed)
      2. Finalize implementation of 2007 and 2008                    MOH-GDFA               March 2010
      Audit Recommendations
      3. Contract external auditors, based on short                   MOH-GDFA              within six months of
      list satisfactory to the Bank for the entire                                          effectiveness
      implementation period of the Project
      4. Provide specific training in FM &                            World Bank            Completed
      Disbursements for project FM Staff

       16. World Bank FM Supervision Strategy. A World Bank FM Specialist will
       undertake a supervision mission prior to effectiveness to verify the modifications of
       the Operations Manual and the status of the Audit arrangements. After effectiveness,
       the FM Specialist will review the quarterly IFRs, review the annual audit report,
       ensure the full implementation of the audit recommendations, and perform at least
       one joint supervision mission per year including Procurement, Financial Management
       and Disbursement on a transaction level review to analyze the flow of funds and
       documentation of flows to PAHO and beneficiaries. In the event that the Association
       becomes aware of information that indicates the need for further scrutiny of the
       procurement or delivery of Supplies or provision of Services (including non-frivolous
       allegations that reasonably indicate the possibility that corrupt, fraudulent, coercive or
       collusive practices may have occurred), the entity that has become aware of such
       information will promptly notify the other two.

       17. Finally, the Bank will review the semiannual Internal Audit Reports and will use
       them as inputs to planning and supervision. The adequacy of FM arrangements will
       be continuously monitored during project supervision and adjustments made when
       necessary to ensure fiduciary compliance.




17
     This column presents the estimated completion date, and is not an indication of legal conditions.


                                                             32
                               Disbursement Schedule
    Category          Amount of the Financing Allocated      Percentage of
                            (expressed in SDR)            Expenditures to be
                                                               Financed
                                                          (inclusive of Taxes)


(1) Goods, and                    2,700,000                      100%
Consultants'
services for Part A
of the Project (not
including any fees
charged by
PAHO)



(2) Goods,                        450,000                        100%
Training,
Consultants'
services and Non-
Consultants'
Services for Part B
of the Project (not
including any fees
charged by
PAHO)



(3) Consultants'                   50,000                        100%
services for Part C
of the Project

TOTAL                             3,200,000
AMOUNT




                                            33
                        Annex 5. Procurement Arrangements
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

   A. General

   1. Procurement for Nicaragua's Health System Strengthening response to
   Epidemiological Emergencies Project would be carried out in accordance with (i) the
   World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
   May 2004 revised October 2006;" (ii) "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
   Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 2006;"
   (iii) Requirements of OP8.00 for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies; and (iv)
   the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement or any other method accepted
   by the Bank. The various items under different expenditure categories are described
   in general below. For each contract to be financed by this Grant the procurement
   methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements,
   and time frame are reflected in the Procurement Plan, as agreed between the
   Government and the Bank. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually, or as
   required to reflect project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
   capacity.

   2. Procurement of Goods: These would mostly include: (i) the purchase of specific
   medicines to prevent, treat, and control the possible impact of the A/H1N1 Human
   Influenza; (ii) the purchase of laboratory equipment and laboratory reagents; and (iii)
   the purchase of information systems. Procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD
   for all ICB (if there is a case) and National SBD agreed with, or satisfactory to, the
   Bank.

   3. Procurement of non-consultant services include: (i) communication services
   such as TV, radio and newspaper spots, and advertisements; (ii) the development of
   providers' knowledge; and (iii) capacity for surveillance guidelines and the use of
   laboratory equipment. The bidding documents will be based on the Bank's SBDs for
   non-consulting services, and when agreed upon with the Bank, the documents will be
   included in the Operations Manual.

   4. Selection of Consultants: Short lists of consultants for services, estimated to
   cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely of
   national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 on Consultant
   Guidelines. Consulting firms will be required for the technical audits to assess the
   compliance of the PAHO's agreement and to verify the achievements of project
   objectives, and for the financial audits required for this project.

   5. Training related expenditures include: per diem, air tickets, accommodations,
   and local transportation for the capacity building programs for health agents. These
   small items shall be procured following National Procurement Procedures.




                                           34
6. The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement
method, as well as model contracts for the goods and non-consulting services
procured, will be presented in the Project's Operational Manual.

7. The Project has been classified as a rapid response program in line with OP8.00
Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, accelerated and Streamlined Procedures
may apply to improve the flexibility, speed, and effectiveness of the Bank's
emergency response. Therefore, to expedite procurement implementation, and
considering the difficulty to attract competition in Nicaragua, direct contracting with
PAHO will be used for the purchase of drugs, medicines, medical supplies and
reagents for laboratory costing US$4.5 million equivalent. The RPM (Regional
Procurement Manager) supports the decision to hire PAHO on a Direct Contracting
basis. An Agreement, based on the Bank's form of Contract for supply of health-
related goods (The World Bank ­ UNICEF and UNFPA Agreement) has been used.
The contents of this Agreement have been agreed between MOH and PAHO, and it
was subsequently reviewed and agreed by the Bank.

8. PAHO cannot enter into a standard World Bank supplier contract. In particular,
the provisions of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines relating to the Bank's right to
inspect accounts, records, and documents of suppliers, contractors or consultants, and
have them audited by auditors appointed by the Bank, are inconsistent with PAHO's
single audit principle (analogous to that of the UN), which limits access to PAHO
records to PAHO-appointed investigators and auditors. Therefore, Bank management
has supported the request to waive (a) the Bank's policy to impose sanctions in the
event of fraud and corruption (paragraph 1.14 (d) Guidelines), and (b) the Bank's
right to require certain provisions in Bank-financed contracts, that allow the Bank to
inspect and audit records of suppliers and service providers and their subcontractors
and sub-consultants. (Paragraph 1.14 (e) Guidelines). The approval of the project by
the Board would indicate its concurrence with the proposed approach and its approval
of the proposed waiver.

9. With respect to sanctions, it is important to note that PAHO is a multilateral
agency with privileges and immunities analogous to those of a UN agency and its
own internal regulations. Just as the Bank cannot sanction government entities, the
Bank is also not in a position to sanction this agency comprised of government
shareholders. However, it is necessary to note that in relation to issues (a) and (b)
indicated in the previous paragraph, the MOH-PAHO Agreement includes provisions
for the application of PAHO's own rules and regulations for investigating allegations
of fraud and corruption. These are the same identified in the existing World Bank-
UNFPA-UNICEF contract. The Bank would be notified if there were allegations of
fraud and corruption, and if not satisfied with PAHO's handling of those allegations
(using its own procedures), it could request a high-level consultation with PAHO. If
still not satisfied, the Bank may require that the Borrower invoke remedies in the
Agreement (i.e. suspension, termination). It has also been agreed that PAHO would
give due regard to the Bank's list of debarred firms and alert the Bank if it intended to
still contract with a firm debarred by the Bank. In this case, expenditures tainted by



                                         35
fraud or corruption would not be eligible or paid from the grant proceeds.
Furthermore, while the MOH-PAHO Agreement would respect PAHO's single audit
principle (whereby an external audit of PAHO can only be conducted regularly by its
own external Auditors, the National Audit Office of the United Kingdom and
Northern Ireland appointed by PAHO's Governing Bodies) it requires PAHO to share
with the Bank these external audits within ten (10) days of these reports becoming
public documents. The MOH-PAHO Agreement would also include a mechanism for
addressing any information that "indicates the need for further scrutiny," which
includes information sharing and elevation of discussions to "high-level
consultations" that may result in an "understanding between the Government of
Nicaragua, PAHO and the Bank, on any further actions to be taken and the timeframe
for such actions" which may include a special examination where appropriate."

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

10. The Procurement Unit of the General Division for Health Supply and Health
Physical Resources, located within the MOH, will be handling all procurement
outside the MOH-PAHO Agreement, for an amount of US$500,000.

11. In June 2009, the Bank carried out an assessment of the capacity of the General
Division for Planning and Development (DGPD) that serves as the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), and the Procurement Unit (PU). The assessment reviewed
the organizational structure for implementing the project and showed that there is
insufficient interaction between the project's staff from the Procurement Unit, the
DGPD, and the General Directorate of Financial Administration (GDFA). Therefore,
it was agreed that the Government will ensure appropriate coordination between the
General Division for Planning and Development, the General Division for Health
Supply and Health Physical Resources, and other relevant line units within MOH for
Component 1 of the Project and also with PAHO, for the supply and distribution of
Eligible Medicines, Medical Supplies, laboratory equipment and reagents and
periodic reposition of materials to SILAIS and health units.

12. To strengthen the capacity of MOH's Procurement Unit, two procurement staff
(one specialist and one analyst) have been hired with the Bank's agreement. The
Bank has recommended that the MOH purchase the necessary equipment (cabinets,
fax machine, computers, telephones, and office furniture) to allow the procurement
unit to carry out its work effectively. These activities have been financed by Credit
4050.

13. Issues and risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the
project have been identified and include:

   inconsistencies between Law 323 and World Bank policies on (i) registration
   requirements; (ii) evaluation systems; and (iii) consulting services;
   weaknesses in the internal and external auditing system;




                                       36
    weaknesses in technical specifications, terms of reference, and contract
    management; and
    need for procurement training for procurement staff.

14. Based on these findings, the Bank concluded that the procurement risk is high.
Therefore, it is advisable that the Bank's post review mission takes place six months
after the starting date of this stand-alone operation.

15. Procurement Thresholds and Bank reviews

   Expenditure            Contract Value            Procurement Method        Contracts subject to
   Category                 Threshold                                           Prior Review
                         (US$ thousands)
   1. Goods and       <= 4,500                  Procurement from PAHO         Agreement
   Non-consulting
   services           >= 150                    ICB                           All Contracts

                      150<25                    NCB                           The first two
                                                                              contracts
                      <=25                      Shopping                      The first contract

                      Any value                 Direct Contracting            All Contracts
   2. Consulting      >=200 firms               QCBS                          All Contracts
   Services
                      <200 firms                QCBS, LCS, FBS, CQS           ToRs
                                                (use of short list of local
                                                consultants only)

                      Any value                 SSS                           All Contracts

                      All values individual     3 Curriculums                 All contracts >=50
                                                                              <50 ToRs

                                                SSS                           All Contracts

ICB:         International Competitive Bidding
NCB:         National Competitive Bidding
SSS:         Single Cost Selection
FBS:         Fixed Budget Selection
CQS:         Consultants Qualifications Selection

C. Procurement Plan

16. The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for procurement methods. The Recipient
and the Bank agreed on this plan on August 14, 2009. The Plan will be available in
the project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will
be updated in agreement with the Bank annually, or as required to reflect actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.




                                               37
D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

17. In addition to the supervision missions to be carried out by the Bank, the Bank
will carry out two post-review procurement missions per year.




                                      38
              Annex 6. Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

1.   The MOH will carry out the activities under the proposed Project and
coordinate its implementation in order to support the National Plan for
Preparedness and Response to an A/H1N1 Human Influenza Pandemic. The project
will finance the purchase of medicines needed to diminish the number of people
contracting A/H1N1 Human Influenza and reduce the number of fatalities through
Component 1. The project will also promote strengthening the epidemiological
surveillance system and communication strategy through Component 2.

2.    FONSALUD and other donors, especially PAHO, will provide technical
assistance in supporting the National Epidemiological Surveillance System Plan and the
National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an A/H1N1 Human Influenza Pandemic.
PAHO will manage the supply of medicines and protective equipment for health workers
included in Component 1. Using PAHO is likely to ensure rapid transaction, lower prices,
high quality products, and reduced management risks. Project implementation will also
be coordinated quarterly with other donors in the Health Roundtable meetings of Donors
led by the Ministry of Health.

3.    The MOH-PAHO Agreement acknowledges that PAHO will be responsible for its
own fiduciary audits; and the Bank will review PAHO's audits to ensure fiduciary
compliance. The MOH will contract the annual audit for the portion of the Grant they
manage. PAHO will ensure that the medicines and laboratory equipment arrive to
Nicaragua. From there on, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will be responsible for the
distribution and transportation of the medicines to the Local Systems of Integrated Health
Care (SILAIS) and the warehouses. These costs will be budgeted by the MOH and
financed by its own resources.

4.    Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using organizational
structures and MOH staff. The MOH is currently implementing the ongoing Bank
health project, and has been assessed by Bank fiduciary specialists as having the capacity
to manage additional funds and implement the activities under the proposed Project.

5.   Project activities would be coordinated and implemented using different levels of
the MOH. Before explaining their specific roles in the implementation of the Project, this
annex lists each line unit. A detailed organization structure is presented in Figure A.6.1:

     General Division for Planning and Development (GDPD)

     General Directorate of Financial Administration (GDFA)

     Procurement Unit (PU)

     General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical Resources (GDHSHR)




                                            39
      General Directorate for Extension and Quality of Health Services (GDEQHS)

      General Directorate for Training and Research (GDTR)

      General Directorate for Public Health Surveillance (GDPHS)

      Diagnostics and Reference National Center (DRNC)

6.    Coordination among these line units has demonstrated strong technical and
managerial skills during the presence of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza in the Country.
The GDPD would serve as the Project Coordination Unit responsible for overall project
coordination and the implementation of Components 1, 2 and 3. For Component 1, the
GDHSHR will coordinate with GDPD and PAHO the purchase of medicines, periodic
reposition materials, and laboratory reagents. Learning from the experiences of the first
wave of the epidemic in the world, it is essential to improve MOH capacity to monitor
results, and to develop its capacity for collection and analysis of data. The GDPHS will
assume these strategic responsibilities. The GDPD, GDEQHS, GDTR and the DRNC
would be responsible for coordinating implementation of Component 2. All health units
would be beneficiaries of the capacity strengthening activities under Component 2. The
Government agreed to reinforce MOH fiduciary units with a financial management
specialist, procurement specialist, and procurement analyst that have experience with
Bank operations to ensure prompt starting of project implementation.

7.    In order to avoid delays in implementation, the following will be needed: (i) the
establishment of a Procurement Unit within the Ministry, staffed with qualified personnel
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out fiduciary functions, specifically for procurement and
financial management, as well as the preparation of a Project Operational Manual as
required; and (ii) an Agreement between MOH and PAHO to execute Component 1.

8.    These implementing units have roles and responsibilities for the Project as
detailed below:

9.   The General Division for Planning and Development (GDPD) would have the
overall responsibility for Project implementation serving as the Project
Coordination Unit and implementing component 1, 2 and 3 of the Project. Under the
leadership of its General Director, serving as the head of the unit, the GDPD would,
among other tasks:

       Ensure that all legal requirements are met, including compliance with the Bank's
       environmental safeguard policies, timely reporting to the Bank and the audit of
       the Project.
       Coordinate the preparation and monitor the implementation of operational and
       procurement plans.
       Ensure that roles and responsibilities of the different line units in carrying out
       activities supported by the Project are established in the operational manual of the
       Project and the annual operational plans of the MOH.



                                            40
       Coordinate with PAHO the procurement of medicines, periodic reposition
       materials, and laboratory reagents.
       Facilitate the supervision of the Project, including the monitoring of Project
       indicators.
       Regularly assess progress in Project implementation, including the identification
       of bottlenecks and strategies to resolve them.
       Liaise with other donors supporting the National Plan for Preparedness and
       Response to an Influenza Pandemic.
       Implement components 1, 2 and 3 of the Project.

10. On all strategic and technical issues, the GDPD would be supported by line
units. For component 1, through a detailed planning exercise carried out jointly by the
GDPHS, the GDEQHS, and the GDPD, the GDHSHR will prepare the planning and
distribution of health inputs and medicines to the health units that are going to be
procured by the Project. Then, the GDPD would assist the GDHSHR to coordinate with
PAHO the purchase of medicines, periodic reposition materials, and laboratory reagents.
Quality and distribution control will be handled jointly through the GDHSHR, the
GDEQHS, and the Health Supply Center (HSC), the unit in charge of centralizing and
providing for territorial demands. For component 2, the GDTR and the GDPHS will
coordinate activities proposed for the Project with the GDPD in order to guarantee the
effective implementation of the capacity building processes at multiple levels (e.g.,
laboratory facilities and community- based interventions), as well as communication,
surveillance, prevention and mitigation activities. Specifically for capacity strengthening
of laboratory systems in health units, all activities will be coordinated with the DRNC.

11. On fiduciary issues, the GDFA and the PU, in coordination with the GDPD,
would be responsible for the following, among other Project-related tasks:

       Prepare and, as necessary, update the Project's operational manual.
       Prepare and update the Project's procurement plans.
       Coordinate with PAHO the purchase of medicines, periodic reposition materials
       and laboratory reagents.
       Procure goods and services.
       Prepare ex-post procurement reviews.
       Prepare financial reports for Project Components and coordinate with PAHO the
       audit exercise and the preparation of financial reports for component 1.
       Prepare Project Financial Statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
       Prepare for, and facilitate, Project audits.

12. The GDPD will be in charge of the supervision, monitoring and evaluation for
all project components. The supervision of project achievements and indicators is a key
task that would be performed by the GDPD. As with the current project, the GDPD is in
charge of supervising project performance. Its roles and functions encompass the
coordination of planning and budgeting processes and the monitoring of resources,
including budget execution. All the above will be achieved with the technical support of



                                            41
the executing line units. Additionally, the GDPD would contract the technical audit for
the Project.

13. PAHO will be responsible for supplying the medicines, periodic reposition
materials, and the laboratory reagents that will be financed under Component 1 and
Component 2a of the Project. PAHO will be the supplier for all medicines, periodic
reposition materials, and laboratory materials. As a result, all operations will be governed
by an implementation Agreement signed by MOH and PAHO. In order for PAHO to
purchase the goods, the MOH through the GDPD will define the requests for medical
supplies (medicines, periodic reposition materials, and the laboratory reagents).

14. The processes and procedures governing project implementation would be
further specified in the Project Operational Manual (OM). The MOH has prepared
the OM for the project. Completion and Bank approval of the OM is a condition for
effectiveness.




                                            42
                                 Figure A.6.1 MINSA Organization Structure 2009


       Citizen Heath National           MINISTER'S OFFICE                    Technical Counsel
              Counsel
                                                 -------------


             LEGAL ADVISORY                                                        NOTARY




            INTERNAL AUDITING                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                                    UNIT



                 PUBLIC                                                           DISASTERS
             RELATIONS/PRESS                                                    TECHNICAL UNIT



              INTERNATIONAL                                                  PUBLIC INFORMATION
                RELATIONS                                                           OFFICE



                                                                              HEALTH NATIONAL
                                                                               ADMINISTRATION




   GENERAL DIVISION                  GENERAL                    GENERAL DIVISION FOR             HUMAN RESOURCES
   FOR PLANNING AND              DIRECTORATE OF                 HEALTH SUPPLY AND                   DIVISION
     DEVELOPMENT                                                HEALTH PHYSICAL
                                    FINANCIAL
                                                                RESOURCES (GDHSHR)
       (GDPD)                    ADMINISTRATION
                                      (GDFA)




     GENERAL                         GENERAL                        GENERAL                           GENERAL
 DIRECTORATE FOR                 DIRECTORATE FOR                DIRECTORATE FOR                   DIRECTORATE FOR
HEALTH REGULATION                 EXTENSION AND                  PUBLIC HEALTH                      TRAINING AND
      (GDHR)                    QUALITY OF HEALTH                SURVEILLANCE                     RESEARCH (GDTR)
                                SERVICES (GDEQHS)                   (GDPHS)




      MEDICAL                       NATIONAL                SUBSTANCE ABUSE                  PREVENTIVE
    BRIGADES AND                    CENTER OF                  INSTITUTE                    MEDICINE UNIT
     CENTERS OF                     DIAGNOSE




                                                  SILAIS


                                                           43
            Annex 7. Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

                                           Planned                     Actual
Decision Meeting                      September 3, 2009          September 3, 2009
Initial PID to PIC                     August 28, 2009           September 24, 2009
Initial ISDS to PIC                    August 28, 2009           November 12, 2009
Negotiations                          November 18, 2009          November 18, 2009
Board/RVP approval                    December 15, 2009
Planned date of Effectiveness          January 29, 2010
Planned date of Mid-term               October 30, 2010
review
Planned Closing date                     June 30, 2012


Team Members

 Rafael Cortez                       Task Team Leader
 Alejandro Alcala                    Senior Counsel
 Amy Faust                           Junior Professional Associate
 Anemarie Guth Proite                Procurement Specialist
 Etel Bereslawski                    Senior Procurement Specialist
 Enrique Román                       Financial Management Specialist
 Marcelo Bortman                     Senior Health Specialist
 Miriam Montenegro                   HD Operations Officer
 Patricia De la Fuente Hoyes         Senior Finance Officer
 Rubén Fernández García              Consultant
 Sarah Berger                        Extended-Term Consultant
 Sonia Levere                        Language Program Assistant
 Viviana Maya                        Counsel
 Veronica Jarrin                     Sr. Program Assistant
 Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo             Senior Social Development Specialist



Estimated Bank funds spent to date on project preparation:

    1.   Bank resources up to FY10:         $ 30,000
    2.   Trust funds:                       N/A

Estimated annual supervision cost:          $ 70,000 (including fixed and variable costs)




                                           44
            Annex 8: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

   1. Given the need to handle biomedical waste, and given the presence of Indigenous
   and Afro-Caribbean groups in the Project area, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
   and OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) are triggered. As this project was prepared under
   OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies), it was agreed with the MOH
   that an environmental and social safeguard audit will be completed within twelve
   months after negotiations to assess compliance with the Environmental Management
   Plan prepared under OP 4.01. The audits will be part of a Technical Audit for the
   entire project. The results of the audit will be submitted to the Bank for review. An
   updated Environmental Management Plan and the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IAPP)
   will be disclosed on the MOH web page and in the Infoshop no later than six months
   after Project Negotiations.

   2. The preparation and implementation of the above assessments and IAPP are the
   responsibility of the Ministry of Health, with technical assistance of the Bank.

   Environment

   3. Adverse environmental impacts under the proposed project would be limited as
   activities are focused largely on capacity building and improved readiness for
   addressing epidemiological emergencies. These activities are expected to have
   positive environmental impacts as well, since project investments in equipment,
   laboratories, and training will improve the effectiveness and safety of existing testing
   and response procedures, and this would be reinforced by the mainstreaming of
   environmental processes into the protocols and procedures for preventing and
   responding to epidemiological pandemics. However, adverse environmental and
   health impacts could occur from inadequate laboratory and medical facility waste
   management. A discussion of the potential impacts and next steps going forward with
   the operation is presented below.

   4. Potential Impacts and Mitigation Measures: The activities under the IDA
   Grant could pose impacts for public health and the environment related to biomedical
   waste management in laboratories, the disposal of pharmaceuticals, and other issues
   that could arise from the prevention or response to epidemiological emergencies. The
   main impacts specific to the project would be from the disposal of expired
   pharmaceuticals purchased under Component 1, disposal of laboratory test kits and
   personal protective equipment, and disposal of needles and syringes from
   immunizations.

   5. Given the potential impacts, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) is triggered,
   and the project is consistent with a Category "B" environmental impact classification.
   A standalone Environmental Assessment (EA) and Environmental Management Plan
   (EMP) were prepared for the Nicaragua Health Services Extension and
   Modernization Project (APLII), which includes a diagnostic of biomedical waste


                                           45
management in Nicaragua, an institutional framework, and an action plan for
improving waste management practices. This EMP will be updated to include
procedures specific to prevention and response programs for epidemiological
emergencies in order to address the types of impacts described above. The EMP will
follow internationally accepted lab waste management practices, and, additionally,
measures on the proper use and disposal of laboratory test kits will be built into
capacity building activities included in Component 2.

6. Institutional Capacity: MOH has been consistently supportive of measures to
strengthen biomedical waste management procedures, has exhibited a high level of
ownership over this agenda, and ensures adequate budget allocations to handle waste
management. The team will assess any constraints to implementing and monitoring
waste management under the ongoing health operation, and ensure that the updated
EMP includes any necessary strengthening measures. This will include assessing
capacity to address any unique impacts posed by new interventions related to
environmental impacts in the prevention of and response to epidemiological
emergencies.

7. Updated Environmental Management Plan (EMP): Given that this is an
emergency operation, safeguards due diligence will be completed after project
approval. As mentioned above, an audit of environmental safeguards performance
under the existing health reform project will be conducted, and the results will be
used to update the EMP. Consistent with standard Bank procedures, the updated EMP
will be subject to public consultation. As agreed with the Government, the updated
EMP will be disclosed on the web page of the Ministry of Health by no later than
May 18, 2009.

Social

8. The objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the capacity of the MOH to
provide rapid response to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza, to monitor the behavior of
the epidemic, and to avoid death of those affected. Special attention must be placed
to the Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean people of the Atlantic Coast and the
Indigenous Territories of Alto Wanki and Bocay, given their geographic isolation and
limited access to health care.

9. Due to the emergency, OP/BP 8.00 will be applied to provide rapid response
procedures to respond to the crisis. An Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean Peoples Plan
(IAPP) has been drafted by the GoN with the participation of the Secretariats of
Health and the SILAIS of North Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAN) and South
Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAS), and the Planning Office of the MOH. The
IAPP will be finalized by the same stakeholders as one of the first implementation
activities of the project. As agreed with the GoN, an audit to verify compliance with
the IAPP, will be carried out as part of a larger Technical Audit no later than
December 18, 2010. The IAPP will be disclosed in-country (in Spanish) and in the
Infoshop (in English) of the Bank no later than May 18, 2009. As part of project



                                       46
implementation, the agencies responsible for safeguard implementation at the central
and decentralized levels of MINSA will be responsible for the completion of an
assessment on institutional capacity and recommendations for improvements.

10. Ongoing Actions of the National Plan for the Prevention and Quick Response
to the Epidemic (April 2009). In general terms, the MOH will continue to
develop the following strategies to respond to the needs of the population as part
of the A/H1N1 program:

(i)        The Surveillance Plan. A Surveillance Plan is being implemented by
        MOH in all the departments of Nicaragua. Departmental Committees have
        been organized for the surveillance and control of the influenza composed by
        Delegations of Government institutions, autonomous and decentralized
        entities, municipalities and Civil Committees called Citizen Power Committee
        (CPC).

        A system of ambulatory and hospital services has been put in place for severe
        cases of the influenza. Likewise, the epidemiological surveillance has been
        activated in rural communities to ensure the brigade services respond timely
        and efficiently to transport patients to health units. Surveillance and control is
        also implemented in airports, seaports and bus terminals to warrant effective
        screening.

        There are approximately 35,000 brigade health workers at the national level,
        and they work close to the community leaders of the CPC. Brigade workers
        disseminate preventive measures and do house-to-house visits bringing
        medical aid and proper treatment to people in their own homes whenever
        possible. As a preventive measure, vulnerable individuals are discouraged
        from attending crowded events. Also on the Atlantic Coast, medical brigades
        carry out sanitary surveillance for the control of A/H1N1.

(ii) The Communications Plan. Two communication strategies are in place. First,
      the communication strategy through media disseminates key messages such as
      the identification of A/H1N1 Human Influenza symptoms, hygiene promotion,
      hand-washing and proper disposal of biomedical waste, and promotion of
      medical response in health units. Second, the house-to-house promotion
      carried out by brigade and health workers with assistance of the CPC is
      valuable to closely monitor those affected by the influenza. Finally, MOH
      disseminates an update of the health of the population through the media and
      its Epidemiology magazine.

(iii)   Capacity building of health workers. Health staff and Committees for
        Control of the Epidemic have received proper training on symptoms, risks and
        responses to crisis. Some of the institutions trained include: government
        institutions (MOH, INSS, Ministry of Education, National Police, Migration,
        Customs, the Armed Forces, and National Agency of Preparedness for Natural



                                         47
              Disasters), civil society (CPC, private enterprises), local governments and
              municipalities, Regional governments of RAAN and RAAS, and Regional
              Councils. Moreover, 47,000 teachers were trained to teach preventive
              measures in schools. Norms, protocols, strategies and rapid response
              mechanisms are part of training.

       Ethnic Profile of Nicaragua

       11. According to the 2005 census, there are at least 10 ethnic groups that account for
       approximately 14 percent of the 5.14 million inhabitants of Nicaragua. On the
       Atlantic Coast, the population of RAAN and RAAS is of approximately 700,000
       people spread out in 60,000 square kilometers, in 20 municipalities and three
       Indigenous Territories of Alto Wanki and Bocay. The ethnic peoples of the Caribbean
       Coast include 42 percent of the total population of the Autonomous Regions. The
       "mestizos" account for the other 58 percent of the population. The Miskitu, Mayagna
       and Rama are of Chibcha origin. The English Creoles are of African descent, brought
       to the continent by British buccaneers in the XVII century, through Jamaica and the
       Antilles. Similarly, the Garifuna were brought by Spanish galleons. Most Miskitu live
       in RAAN and Jinotega. There are six ethnic groups on the Caribbean Coast: the
       Miskitu (200,000), the Mayagna-Sumo18 (Twahkas, Panamakas, Kukras) (20,000),
       the Garífuna (3,500), los English-speaking Creole (75,000), the Ulwa (2,000), and the
       Rama (1,500).

 (i)       The aggressive advance of the agricultural frontier of the Pacific towards the
           Atlantic Coast may bring along the influenza. Other risks of transmission of
           A/H1N1 Human Influenza to the above population are: direct access of
           newcomers through the Atlantic Ocean particularly to Bilwi, Bluefields or Corn
           Island; and air travel access at the mining triangle (municipalities of Rosita,
           Siuna, and Bonanza).

 (ii)      In the Pacific, Center and Northern regions, the indigenous population is
           approximately 333,00019 people. Most people are `mestizo' in these regions.
           However, there are four ethnic groups in nine departments and 29 municipalities.
           Most indigenous peoples of the Pacific Coast are in Rivas, Masaya, León and
           Chinandega. In the Central Region, they live in the departments of Matagalpa
           and Jinotega; and in the Northern Region, in the departments of Nueva Segovia
           and Madriz. The most numerous group is the Chorotegas (approximately
           166,000), whose background is Navajo (USA), having migrated from Mexico
           800 A.D. and live in Masaya and Madriz. The second largest group is the
           Matagalpa/Cacaopera (approximately 98,000) of Chibcha (South America)
           origin, living in Matagalpa. The Sutiaba-Xiu (approximately. 49,000) also of
           Mexican origin, living in León and Chinandega. The Nahua-Nicarao (about

18
   The use of the term `sumo' to refer to the Mayagnas is considered as a hate word since it was used by
Miskitos in the past to signify "lazy".
19
   WTO Netherlands, Regional Councils of Indigenous Peoples Pacific, Center, North (2006). Study of the
Living Conditions of the Indigenous Peoples of Pacific, Center and North of Nicaragua.


                                                   48
         20,000) migrated from México 1200 A.D. and lives around the Nicaragua and
         Tipitapa lakes.

Legal Framework

12. The IAPP is based on the Coordination Framework Agreement for the
Regionalization of Health in the Autonomous Regions of the Caribbean Coast of
Nicaragua, signed by the Minister of Health, the Presidents of the Regional Councils of
RAAN and RAAS, and the Health Secretariat Coordinators on November 19, 2008. The
purpose of the Framework Agreement (First Clause) was to advance institutionally in the
implementation of the regionalization of the Health Sector by delegating the
responsibility of the organization, management and autonomous provision of health
services to the Regional Councils and the Autonomous Regional Governments of RAAN
and RAAS, as well as the administration of human, physical and financial resources and
the implementation of stewardship plans.

Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean Peoples Plan (OP 4.10)

13. Given the presence of Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean peoples in the project area, the
Bank requires the Borrower/Grantee to prepare an Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean
Peoples Plan (IAPP). A draft IAPP was formulated with the participation of the
Secretariats of Health of the Autonomous Regions of RAAN and RAAS, the SILAIS of
RAAN and RAAS, and the Planning Office of the central MOH. As agreed with the
MOH, an audit of compliance with the IAPP will be included in the Technical Audit of
the project, which will be carried out during the first twelve months of project
implementation. The IAPP will also include the Alto Wanki river region and
corresponding Indigenous territories (Jinotega). The IAPP will be disclosed by the GoN
on the web page of the MOH, and in the Infoshop of the Bank no later than May 18,
2010. The objective of the IAPP is two-fold: (a) to ensure access of the Indigenous and
Afro-Caribbean to project benefits; and (b) to ensure that the services rendered under the
project are delivered in a culturally-adequate way. The Plan will be discussed and
finalized in meetings planned by the MOH Planning Office with the Health Secretariats
and SILAIS of RAAN and RAAS early on during implementation. The draft IAPP
includes:

(i)    Under component 1 (Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies) and 2a
       (Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological surveillance and related
       early prevention programs and systems., medicines and protective medical
       equipment will be delivered to the Caribbean Regions and Alto Wanki in amounts
       proportional to the crisis of influenza in the regions, taking into account a priori the
       logistic and geographic challenges of the coastal region. The latter aspects will be
       discussed in the above-mentioned meeting to finalize the Plan.

(ii)   Under component 2a (Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua's epidemiological
       surveillance and related early prevention programs and systems) three series of
       training modules will be carried out as follows: (i) capacity building of lab



                                              49
     technicians on management of biomedical waste and interpretation of lab results;
     (ii) capacity building of health staff and lab technicians of national and
     departmental laboratories on interpretation, monitoring and disclosure of lab results;
     and (iii) training of health, hygienists, and community-based health workers on
     epidemiological surveillance, norms and proper compliance with guidelines. The
     above capacity building will be done in two steps: first a core group of lab
     technicians, hygienists and health staff from RAAN, RAAS and Alto Wanki will be
     trained; and second, the above group will provide training to local hospitals, health
     centers and the community-based health network. After training is finished, 4
     trainees from RAAN, RAAS, Rio San Juan and Alto Wanki will attend a workshop
     at the central level, for the systematization of experiences.

(iii) Under component 2b (Strengthening of the communication and prevention strategy)
      existing printed materials (brochures, manuals) will be reproduced (Spanish,
      Miskito). Materials will be translated to Mayagna for the alto Wanki region and
      English for Bluefield area.

(iv) Under component 3: As part of project implementation, the completion of a
     capacity needs and institutional strengthening assessment and recommendations for
     improvements.




                                           50
                    Annex 9. Economic and Financial Analysis


Under Global Program for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness and
Response (GPAI) this annex is optional. An Economic and Financial analysis has been
done. A brief summary of the economic and financial impact is noted in main text.




                                        51
                       Annex 10. Documents in Project Files
  Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

Country documents produced/commissioned by the World Bank:

   1.  Social Assessment, January 18, 2005.
   2.  Environmental Assessment, October 14, 2004.
   3.  Fiduciary Assessment, January 2005.
   4.  Public Expenditure Review, 2008.
   5.  Development Credit Agreement. Credit Number 4050-NI. June 7, 2005.
   6.  Equity, Access to Health Care Services and Expenditures on Health in Nicaragua.
       Diego Angel-Urdinola, Rafael Cortez and Kimie Tanabe. June, 2008.
   7. Nicaragua Poverty Assessment. Report No. 39736-NI. Volume II: Background
       Paper. May 30, 2008.
   8. Nicaragua Poverty Assessment. Report No. 39736-NI. Volume III: Background
       Paper. May 30, 2008.
   9. Nicaragua Public Expenditure Review. Improving the Poverty Focus of Public
       spending. Report No. 23095-NI. December 7, 2001.
   10. Análisis del Gasto Público de Salud.          Hacia una visión integrada del
       financiamiento, el gasto y la producción de servicios de salud. Nicaragua, Junio
       2009.
   11. Nicaragua PAD Health Services Extension and Modernization Project in support
       of the Second Phase Project.

Country Documents produced by the Government

   1. National Health Policies 2004-2015.
   2. National Health Plan 2004-2015.
   3. Five-Year Implementation Plan.
   4. Modelo de Salud de Atención Comunitaria (MOSAC)
   5. Code of Conduct (latest draft).
   6. Plan Nacional para la Prevención y Respuesta ante la Epidemia de Influenza
      Humana.
      Managua, Abril, de 2009.
   7. Resolución de Managua - Respuesta Regional a la Epidemia de la Influenza
      Porcina. COMISCA, 28 de abril de 2009.




                                         52
                                              Annex 11. Statement of Loans and Credits
              Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project

                                                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                                                       expected and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                                                   disbursements
Project ID    FY     Purpose                                         IBRD      IDA          SF            GEF       Cancel.        Undisb.         Orig.           Frm. Rev'd
P110092       2009   NI Greater Managua Water and Sanitation          0.00         40.00    0.00           0.00           0.00          40.48           0.32             0.00
P109691       2008   NI Micro, Small & Medium Enterprise              0.00         20.00    0.00           0.00           0.00          19.15           4.07             0.00
                     Dev.
P108974       2008   NI Hurricane Felix Emergency Recovery            0.00         17.00    0.00           0.00           0.00          12.38           3.44             0.00
P106283       2008   NI Rural Water Supply and Sanitation             0.00         20.00    0.00           0.00           0.00          16.98          -0.41             0.00
P089989       2006   NI Rural Telecom                                 0.00          7.00    0.00           0.00           0.00           4.88           3.44             0.00
P087046       2006   NI 2nd Agricultural Technology Project           0.00         12.00    0.00           0.00           0.00           3.49           2.26             0.00
P083952       2006   NI (CRL) Roads Rehab & Maintenance IV            0.00         60.00    0.00           0.00           0.00          29.02          17.42             0.00
P078991       2005   NI - (APL2)HEALTH SECTOR II                      0.00         11.00    0.00           0.00           0.71           0.77           1.46             0.00
P078990       2005   NI - EDUCATION                                   0.00         15.00    0.00           0.00           0.00           5.90           4.97             0.00
P077826       2004   NI Broad-Based Access to Finan Services          0.00          7.00    0.00           0.00           0.00           4.32           3.80             0.00
P073246       2003   NI Offgrid Rural Electrification (PERZA)         0.00         12.00    0.00           0.00           0.00           2.78           1.22             -0.14
P056018       2002   NI LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                   0.00         32.60    0.00           0.00           0.00           4.76          -2.39             -6.47
                                                            Total:    0.00     253.60       0.00           0.00           0.71      144.91             39.60        - 6.61


                                                                NICARAGUA
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                          Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                           In Millions of US Dollars

                                                                       Committed                                                  Disbursed
                                                                      IFC                                                    IFC
       FY Approval      Company                          Loan        Equity        Quasi     Partic.       Loan             Equity           Quasi             Partic.
       2004             Confia                           3.50          0.00          0.00        0.00            3.50            0.00           0.00             0.00
       2006             FINDESA                          2.00          0.00          3.00        0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00             0.00
                        International...                 10.00         0.00          0.00        0.00           10.00            0.00           0.00             0.00
       1999             SEF Dicegsa                      0.08          0.00          0.00        0.00            0.08            0.00           0.00             0.00
                                      Total portfolio:    15.58        0.00          3.00        0.00           13.58            0.00           0.00             0.00



                                                                                       Approvals Pending Commitment
                         FY Approval       Company                                 Loan          Equity           Quasi            Partic.




                                                 Total pending commitment:          0.00          0.00             0.00             0.00




                                                                              53
                                                           Annex 12. Country at a Glance

Nicaragua at a glance                                                                                                                                               12/2/09

                                                                                          Latin        Lo wer
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                                A merica        middle
                                                                        Nicaragua      & Carib.      inco me         Age distribution, 2007
(2008)
                                                                                                                                         Male                          Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                            5.7            561      3,435        75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                              130           20,421     35,51 0
                                                                                                                    60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                      1.3             1.2        1.0
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                56               78         42        45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                            6.1          3,252      6,543
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                       1,080           5,801      1,905
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                  2,620           9,678      4,585             0-4

                                                                                                                               10           5            0             5           10
GDP gro wth (%)                                                                3.5            5.7        10.2
                                                                                                                                         percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                     2.2            4.4         9.1

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 ­ 2 0 0 8 )

                                  .25
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)                            16               8          ..
                                                                                                                    Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                         32              17          ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                               73              73         69
                                                                                                                    80
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                      29              22         38
                                                                                                                    70
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                    ..              4         25
                                                                                                                    60
                                                                                                                    50
                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                                78              92         88
                                                                                                                    40
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                              78              90         77
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                            17
                                                                               1              120        121        30

Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                          14
                                                                                1             161        109        20
                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                     0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                     79             91          88
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)               48             78          55                         1990        1995        2000      2007


                                                                                                                               Nicaragua        Latin America & the Caribbean


N e t A id F lo ws                                            19 8 0        19 9 0         2000       2008      a



(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                       218           330             561        834        Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2007):
  Spain                                                           ..           15             20           1
                                                                                                          15         8
  Euro pean Co mmissio n                                         15            16             43          88
                                                                                                                     6
  United States                                                  79            97             73          77
                                                                                                                     4

A id (% o f GNI)                                                10.8         33.4            15.0        14.9        2

A id per capita (US$ )                                            67          80               1
                                                                                              10         149         0

                                                                                                                    -2

Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                -4

                                                                                                                                            95                                05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                             35.3        7485.2              1
                                                                                              1 .5       16.2
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                       37.0        5,018.1            8.6        16.8
                                                                                                                                         GDP                        GDP per capita

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )                 0.0            0.2           12.7        19.4
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                              142            87            1 00          89
                                                                                                                     19 8 0 ­ 9 0 19 9 0 ­ 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 ­ 0 8
                                                                                                                            (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                              3.3           4.1             5.1        5.7                   2.4                 2.1                    1.3
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                            2,144        1,009           3,936      6,592                    -1.9                3.7                    3.5
                                                                             (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                       ..            ..          20.9      19.4                         ..             4.7                  3.0
Industry                                                           ..            ..          28.2      29.6                         ..             5.5                  4.4
  M anufacturing                                                   ..            ..          17.0      18.9                         ..             5.3                  5.5
Services                                                           ..            ..          50.9       51.1                        ..             5.0                  3.5

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                    82.5          58.6            84.0      89.8                     -3.6                 6.1                3.2
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                 19.7          43.5            12.2      12.4                      3.4                -1.5                2.7
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                     16.8          19.3            30.2      31.8                     -4.8                1 .3
                                                                                                                                                     1                  2.2

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                              24.2          24.9            23.9      33.2                     -3.9                9.3                 8.8
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                              43.3          46.3             51.1     67.2                     -3.2               12.2                 5.5
Gro ss savings                                                  -8.1         -4.3             9.3      14.3


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2007.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                      54
                                                                                                                                                                             Nicaragua

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                       2000          2008
                                                                                                      Governance indicators, 2000 and 2007
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                                   643        2,621
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                                  1,806        4,959                  Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                                 -1,043       -2,582
                                                                                                               Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                            -792       -1,607
 as a % o f GDP                                                     -20.1       -24.4                        Regulatory quality

                                                                                                                     Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                            320           740
                                                                                                           Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                            497           1,206
                                                                                                                                     0        25           50           75        100

                                                                                                               2007                      Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                                    higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                               2000
(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                   18.8           19.3             Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                         13.8           17.8
Current expenditure                                                  13.6           16.4
                                                                                                   T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                        2000         2007
Overall surplus/deficit                                              -5.0           -1.2
                                                                                                   P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                         1 .1               ..
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                                      Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                              25         30                                  00
                                                                                                    subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                              5      38
 Co rpo rate                                                             25         30             High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                                    (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                       5.0          4.5
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                                   E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                            6,853        2,399               A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                 42          44
To tal debt service                                                 287          419               Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                      45.6       42.7
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                        4,618          954               Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f land area)                         ..      17.6

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                            174.1          36.4            Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                  36,099         33,854
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                                 19.7          10.8            Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                       1.3            ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                            267           201             CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                      0.74       0.72
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                     0             0
                                                                                                   GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                                    (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                           3.9        3.8
  Composition of total external debt, 2008
                                                                                                   Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                      538         624
                                IBRD, 0      IDA, 317

              Short-term, 612                                    IMF, 63
                                                                                                   Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                              2000         2008

                                                                    Other multi-                   (US$ millio ns)
                                                                    lateral, 21

                                                                                                   IB RD
              Private, 399                                                                          To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                   5          0
                                                                                                    Disbursements                                                            0          0
                                                        Bilateral, 987
                                                                                                    P rincipal repayments                                                    5          0
                                                                                                    Interest payments                                                        1          0

  US$ millions                                                                                     IDA
                                                                                                    To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             654          317
                                                                                                    Disbursements                                                       87           42
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                       2000          2008                 To tal debt service                                                  6            3

Time required to start a business (days)                                 ­           39            IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                         ­          21
                                                                                   1 .0             To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                            6      46
Time required to register pro perty (days)                               ­          124              o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                             6      36
                                                                                                    Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                     2      25
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                       2000          2007                 P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                                repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                       0          2
  A ccess to /co st o f financing                                         ..   65.9
  Co rruptio n                                                            ..   65.7                M IGA
                                                                                                    Gro ss expo sure                                                      81        97
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                                ..             ..         New guarantees                                                      145          0
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                    6.3            8.8


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2008 data are preliminary.                                                                                12/2/09
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                              55
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                        Nicaragua


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                    N ic a ra gua


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                             19 9 0           19 9 5              2000                2008
                                     .25
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                                   ..         32.5                 19.4                15.8
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                             ..         50.3                47.9                      ..
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest quintile (%)                                                      ..          2.6                  4.2                     ..
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                                 ..          9.6                  7.8                     ..


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                                ..               ..                82                   97
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                               39               49                 66                   73
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                          36               46                 53                   69
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                       ..               ..               86                    87


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary educatio n (%)                                                                  107              103                101                   98
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                                  ..              ..              28.8                         ..
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                   15             11                  10                        19


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                 68               53                 43                   35
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                       52               41                 34                   29
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                              82               85                 86                   99


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                           ..                ..                  ..              170
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                                ..                ..             67                    74
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                           ..           49                  69                    72


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                            0.1                  0.1                0.1                 0.2
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                               108                   85                 68                  49
 Tuberculo sis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                        ..                 72                 78                  97


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     70                    74                 77                  79
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               42                    44                 46                  48
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                        54.5                   49.7               45.6                42.7
 Natio nally pro tected areas (% o f to tal land area)                                                            ..                    ..                 ..               17.6
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       0.6                   0.6                0.7                 0.7
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                                3.7                   3.6                3.9                 3.8


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                 1.1             2.1                3.2                  4.5
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                         0.0              0.1                1.8                  53.5
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                      0.0              0.0                1.0                  2.8
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                  ..            1.0                2.3                  4.0



   Education indicators (%)                                   Measles immunization (% of 1-year                              ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                              olds)
   125                                                        100                                                            40

   100
                                                               75                                                            30
    75

    50                                                         50                                                            20

    25
                                                               25                                                            10
     0

            2000       2002        2004        2006 2007        0                                                            0

                                                                          1990     1995    2000     2007                             2000       2002       2004           2006 2007
              Primary net enrollment ratio

                                                                     Nicaragua    Latin America & the Caribbean                    Fixed + mobile subscribers      Internet users
              Ratio of girls to boys in primary education




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                              12/2/09

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                    56
Annex 13. Map IBRD 33456




           57
