                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2525



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-H5300)

                                   ON A

                                  GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.2 MILLION

                      (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                   FOR A

       HEALTH SYSTEM STRENGTHENING AND HUMAN PANDEMIC

                      PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE


                             December 26, 2012




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2012)
                          Currency Unit = SDR
                          SDR 1.00 = 1.52 US$
                          US$ 1.00 = 0.66 SDR

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A/H1N1   Influenza A/H1N1
CIPS     Centro de Insumos para la Salud
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GDPD     General Division for Planning and Development (División General de
         Planificación y Desarrollo)
GDPHS    General Directorate for Public Health Surveillance (Dirección General de
         Vigilancia de la Salud Pública)
IAPP     Indigenous and Afro-Descendant People’s Plan
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IDA      International Development Association (“Association?)
ISR      Implementation Status Reports
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MOH      Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
NGOs     Non Government Organizations
OP/BP    Operation Policy/Bank Procedure
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAHO     Pan American Health Organization
PDO      Project Development Objective
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SILAIS   Local Systems of Integrated Health Care (Sistema Local de Atención
         Integral de Salud)
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
US$      United States Dollars
WHO      World Health Organization

                      Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                    Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                     Sector Manager: Joana Godinho
                Project Team Leader: Amparo Elena Gordillo-Tobar
                   ICR Team Leader: Maryanne Sharp
                         ICR Author: Saskia A. Nahrgang

                                     i
                                NICARAGUA
Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies Project


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iii
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iii
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... iv
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iv
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iv
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. vii
  H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................... vii
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii



   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
   6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 30
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 34
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
   MAP IBRD 33456 ........................................................................................................ 39




                                                                 ii
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Health System
                                                                           Strengthening and
Country:                Nicaragua                Project Name:             Response to
                                                                           Epidemiological
                                                                           Emergencies Project
Project ID:             P112906                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H5300
ICR Date:               12/26/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.20M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.20M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.20M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/20/2009     Effectiveness:              04/14/2010        03/26/2010
Appraisal:            08/27/2009     Restructuring(s):           04/05/2011
Approval:             12/17/2009     Mid-term Review:            12/12/2011
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2012        06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:    Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing   Satisfactory


                                                iii
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                 98                    98
Public administration- Health                                           2                     2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                              50                    50
Other communicable diseases                                            50                    50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Carlos Felipe Jaramillo              Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:             Joana Godinho                        Keith E. Hansen
Project Team Leader:        Amparo Elena Gordillo-Tobar          Carlos Marcelo Bortman
ICR Team Leader:            Maryanne Sharp
ICR Primary Author:         Saskia A. Nahrgang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the proposed Project is to strengthen the capacity of the Nicaraguan
health system to manage the spread and the effects of A/H1N1 Influenza through


                                                 iv
prevention, monitoring, and treatment of affected populations, with special attention to
high-risk groups.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
                  Percentage of medicines and medical supplies distributed timely to SILAIS
Indicator 1 :
                  according to the MOH proposed plan.
Value
quantitative or   0.00                      100.00                             100.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/23/2010                 06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments          Target was fully achieved for the distribution of equipment and laboratory
(incl. %          reactive; however there were delays in distribution of medicines financed with
achievement)      Project funds as indicated below. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
                  Number of public health laboratories (located in the SILAIS) conducting
Indicator 2 :
                  A/H1N1 diagnosis.
Value
quantitative or   0.00                      17.00                              17.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/23/2010                 06/30/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments          Target fully achieved. All 17 Local Systems of Integrated Health Care (SILAIS)
(incl. %          are equipped with public health laboratories capable of conducting A/H1N1
achievement)      diagnosis (total of 30 hospital laboratories). Source: MOH technical audit (2012).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of weeks of delayed deliver for medicines procured by PAHO.
Value
(quantitative     0.00                      0.00                               0.00 - 6.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/23/2010                 06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments          This target was partly achieved. The range of delays was from 2 days to 2 weeks
(incl. %          and for some medicines up to 6 weeks. In rare cases even up to 6 months.
achievement)      Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
                  Proportion of SILAIS that have at least the minimum defined stock of A/H1N1
Indicator 2 :
                  related medicines.
Value
                  0.00                      100.00                             100.00
(quantitative

                                                   v
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target fully achieved. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
achievement)
                Percent of SILAIS compliant with surveillance guidelines, receiving a
Indicator 3 :
                satisfactory or better rating.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         100.00                            89.50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments        This indicator was partly achieved due to less than optimal compliance with
(incl. %        surveillance guidelines, e.g. belated update of influenza indicators. Source: MOH
achievement) technical audit (2012).
Indicator 4 : Number of laboratories certified on control of A/H1N1 Human influenza.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         4.00                              4.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target fully achieved. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
achievement)
                Number of hospitals with staff certified in infection control and case
Indicator 5 :
                management.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         27.00                             31.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target fully achieved. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
achievement)
                Number of professionals and support personnel trained with surveillance
Indicator 6 :
                guidelines.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         200.00                            11501.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
achievement)
                Number of health workers trained on how to properly diagnose, treat and care for
Indicator 7 :
                victims.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         2000.00                           15090.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                     06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
                Target surpassed. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
(incl. %

                                               vi
achievement)
                Percentage of heads of household aware of prevention measures against
Indicator 8 :
                A/H1N1.
Value
(quantitative   0.00                      80.00                            98.30
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2010                  06/30/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed. Source: MOH technical audit (2012).
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                           IP             Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/02/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     02/20/2011       Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               4.56
  3     09/07/2011       Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               4.63
  4     03/31/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   4.69
  5     08/22/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   4.72

H. Restructuring (if any)
The Government submitted a restructuring request on March 23, 2011, including a
request for reallocation of the Grant proceeds to cover the overdraft of SDR150,488 in
Category 1 (Goods and Consultants’ services for Part A of the Project), reducing funds
from Category 2 (Goods and Consultants services and Non Consultants services for Part
B of the Project) and Category 3 (Consultant services for Part C of the Project).

I. Disbursement Profile




                                               vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal in 2009, with a population of 5.7 million and a GDP per
capita of US$1,088, Nicaragua was one of the poorest countries in Latin America and the
Caribbean region, and poverty and extreme poverty rates (46.2 percent and 15 percent,
respectively in 2008) had changed little since 2001. Poverty was highly concentrated in
rural regions, where extreme poverty rates are five times that in urban areas. Between
2001 and 2008, Nicaragua experienced steady, moderate economic growth of around 3.2
percent, contributing to small gains in social indicators, and expenditures on measures
aligned with the country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy steadily increased. The
Government’s pro-poor agenda emphasized basic social services and infrastructure,
particularly in poor rural areas.

2.      At the same time the Republic of Nicaragua had made progress on several
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Between 2001 and 2008, infant mortality fell
from 38 to 28 per thousand live births. Despite these improvements in health, there had
been little progress in reducing income poverty. In 2009, total health expenditure
amounted to 9.6 percent of GDP or 18.1 percent of Government expenditure. In addition,
fiscal constraints of the Government made it difficult to expand (or even maintain) social
expenditures, which contributed to slow progress towards other MDGs (primary
education completion and a reduction in malnutrition levels). Despite progress, Nicaragua
was facing considerable health challenges, including a double burden of communicable
and non-communicable disease, persistent malnutrition, relatively high fertility, as well
as high maternal and infant mortality.

3.      In April 2009, following the outbreak of the new A/H1N1 Human Influenza strain
in Mexico, the virus quickly spread into the Central America region, and the World
Health Organization (WHO) declared a worldwide pandemic on November 1, 2009. At
the time of Project appraisal, Nicaragua was among the more severely affected countries
in the region, with more than 2,152 confirmed cases of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza,
and eleven official deaths. 1 Given the risk of the virus becoming more destructive and
burdensome, the Nicaragua health system needed to be strengthened to better mitigate the
effects of the virus. Persistent challenges made it difficult for the Nicaraguan health
system to respond to the potentially growing epidemic, particularly the critical gaps in
access and supply of basic health care services. Important constraints faced by the
country included uneven quality of services, limited laboratory, diagnostic and
surveillance capacity, poorly trained staff and inadequate supply of drugs.



1
Pan-American Health Organization 2009, Regional Update. Pandemic (H1N1) November 3, 2009.
Washington DC: PAHO.

                                               1
4.     In response to the threat posed by the epidemic, the Government of Nicaragua
developed a National Plan for the Prevention and Response to the Human Influenza
Epidemic 2 , financed through Government budget and supported by external donor
resources. The Nicaragua health sector wide approach (SWAp) was to facilitate a
harmonized and coordinated donor response to the epidemic. The objectives of the
national plan were to (i) prevent and mitigate the spread of the pandemic; (ii) treat all
possible cases or individuals with symptoms; and (iii) strengthen control and
epidemiological attention among high-risk populations 3. An IDA Grant was requested to
quickly and effectively support activities that would mitigate the impact of the outbreak
and that would strengthen Nicaragua’s overall surveillance and public health functions.

5.      Bank support for this operation is rooted in the Country Partnership Strategy 2007
(CPS-39637-NI). The last joint Interim Strategy Note for Nicaragua was discussed by the
Executive Directors on August 4, 2005 (Report No. 32570-NI dated July 6, 2005). The
CPS targets poverty reduction focusing on four strategic objectives: (i) reactivating the
economy, stimulating productivity and competitiveness; (ii) human capital development,
especially health and education, and improving social equity and opportunity; (iii)
infrastructure and sustainable development; and (iv) strengthening government and
accountability, by modernizing and professionalizing State institutions, and promoting
citizen participation. The Nicaragua Health System Strengthening and Response to
Epidemiological Emergencies Project supported the second, third and fourth goal of the
CPS, and responded in a flexible way to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza pandemic crisis.

6.      IDA had been supporting Nicaragua’s efforts in the health sector through the
Health Services Extension and Modernization Project (P078991) completed in June 2010,
which focused on increasing coverage of basic pre- and post-natal care services, reducing
child malnutrition and infant mortality, decentralizing services and strengthening of
health care networks. Many lessons drawn from the implementation of this Project (IDA-
40500) were taken into consideration during preparation of this grant.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The objective of the Nicaragua Health System Strengthening and Response to
Epidemiological Emergencies Project was to strengthen the capacity of the Republic of
Nicaragua’s health system to support the control of the spread and the effects of A/H1N1
Human Influenza through prevention, monitoring, and treatment of affected populations,
with special attention to high-risk groups.

8.       The Project’s key performance indicators were the following:
     •   Percentage of medicines and medical supplies distributed timely to the Local
         Systems of Integrated Health Care (SILAIS) according to MOH proposed plan.


2
  Ministerio de Salud, Républica de Nicaragua 2009. Plan de Intervención epidemia de influenza
humana.PowerPoint presentation. Supervision misión of May 26-29, 2009.
3
  High-risk groups in this context are individuals with underlying medical conditions, pregnant women,
children, elderly individuals and health care workers.

                                                    2
      •   Number of public health laboratories (located in the SILAIS) conducting A/H1N1
          diagnoses.
      •   Number of weeks of delayed deliver for medicines procured by PAHO.
      •   Proportion of SILAIS that have at least the minimum defined stock of A/H1N1
          Human Influenza related medicines.
      •   Percent of SILAIS compliant with surveillance guidelines, receiving a satisfactory
          or better rating.
      •   Number of laboratories certified on control of A/H1N1 influenza.
      •   Number of hospitals with staff certified in infection control and case management.
      •   Number of professionals and support personnel trained with surveillance
          guidelines.
      •   Number of health workers trained on how treat, diagnosis, care for victims.
      •   Percentage of heads of household aware of prevention measures against A/H1N1.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.     There were no revisions to the Project’s Development Objective and key
performance indicators during implementation. The datasheet reflects all indicators. As
explained in section 1.6 below, the scope of Project components was adjusted to account
for developments during Project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The Project supported interventions for the benefit of the general population, as
well as interventions targeted at high-risk groups such as (i) pregnant and lactating
women, (ii) infants and children, (iii) health care workers, (iv) chronically ill and
immune-depressed people, (v) elderly individuals, and (vi) other individuals highly
susceptible to additional health complications such as acute lower respiratory tract
infections (pneumonia, pneumonitis, and bronchopneumonia), and sepsis 4.

11.    Since medicines and medical supplies were generally available in urban areas
with limited targeting of vulnerable groups, especially in the Atlantic Region, the
Ministry of Health (MOH) formulated an Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean People’s Plan
(IAPP) in close collaboration with the representations of Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean
peoples, to ensure access of vulnerable groups to the proposed Project benefits, and
provision of such services in a culturally adequate manner.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

12.       The Project, in the amount of US$5 million, financed three components:



4
 Ministerio de Salud, República de Nicaragua.2009. Plan de Intervención epidemia de influenza humana.
PowerPoint presentation. Supervision mission of May 26-29, 2009.

                                                  3
Component 1. Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies (US$4.2 million
equivalent of total Project cost). The Component aimed at increasing the Government’s
capacity to prevent and limit severe illness or death among infected populations, as laid
out in the Government’s National Plan for the Prevention and Response to Human
Influenza Epidemic, through the following subcomponents and strategies:
    A. Purchase and distribution of medicines (US$3.7 million equivalent).This sub-
       component was intended to (i) finance the acquisition and distribution of eligible
       medicines and medical supplies; (ii) reduce the number of people with A/H1N1
       Human Influenza and the number of case fatalities; and (iii) specifically target
       individuals at greater risk of contracting other illnesses than the general
       population.
    B. Protective medical equipment and periodical renewal (US$500,000
       equivalent). This sub-component was designed to: (i) strengthen the Republic of
       Nicaragua’s Immunization program through the provision and distribution of
       protective medical equipment for health care workers; and (ii) administer the
       vaccine against A/H1N1 Human Influenza after becoming available.

13.     Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua’s Epidemiological
Surveillance and Prevention Programs (US$720,000 equivalent of total Project cost).
The component aimed at strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua’s epidemiologic
surveillance and early prevention programs and systems at the departmental level 5. This
component had two sub-components:
    A. Strengthen the Republic of Nicaragua’s epidemiological surveillance and
        related early prevention program and systems (US$640,000 equivalent).This
        sub-component would strengthen the epidemiological surveillance and prevention
        strategy, including the Republic’s existing network of national and sub-national
        health laboratories through (a) the acquisition of laboratory equipment, laboratory
        reagents, and computers; (b) the updating of the Epidemiological Surveillance
        Guidelines; (c) the updating of current procedures for biomedical waste
        management; and (d) the provision of training to inter alia MOH staff, traditional
        health workers, teachers and other community leaders on (i) monitoring, treatment
        and prevention of negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza; (ii) the use
        and disposal of laboratory kits; (iii) the interpretation of results in SILAIS 6 health
        laboratories; (iv) the updated epidemiological surveillance guidelines.
    B. Strengthen the Communication and Prevention Strategy (US$80,000
        equivalent). This sub-component would (i) support the preparation and
        dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza-related communication material;



5
  Nicaragua had 15 “Departamentos? and two Autonomous Regions (North and South Atlantic Regions) at
the time of Project approval: Boaco; Carazo; Chinandega; Chontales; Estelí; Granada; Jinotega;
León;Madriz; Managua; Masaya; Matagalpa; Nueva Segovia; Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte;
Región Autónomadel Atlántico Sur; Río San Juan; and Rivas. In 2012 at the time of the ICR, the Región
Autónoma del Atlántico Norte was transformed into two departaments, Minas and Puerto Cabezas, leaving
17 Departaments and one Autonomous Region.
6
  SILAIS or “ Sistema Local de Atencion Integral de Salud? are integrated health facilities at the sub-
regional level.

                                                   4
       and (ii) carry out preventive and social communication strategies through radio,
       local newspapers, and other media.

14.     Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring (US$80,000 equivalent of
total Project cost). This component was designed to support (i) the management of the
Project through provision of procurement and financial management services; (ii)
implementation of activities laid out in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP); (iii)
implementation of activities as laid out in the IAPP; and (iv) implementation of financial
and technical audits.

1.6 Revised Components

15.     Following a request from the Government of Nicaragua in March 2011, the Grant
Agreement was amended to reallocate proceeds to cover an overdraft of SDR150,488 in
Category 1 (Goods and Consultants’ services for Part A of the Project) due to a
difference in exchange rates. This reallocation resulted in a reduction of funds in
Category 2 (Goods and Consultants services and Non Consultants services for Part B of
the Project) and Category 3 (Consultant services for Part C of the Project).

16.     Additional vaccines were purchased under Component 1 thanks to proceeds saved
from procurement through the Pan American Health Organization’s (PAHO) revolving
fund system. Component 2a financed a greater number of computers than initially
intended to support fifty municipalities with data entry units for disease surveillance.
Component 2b only partly financed the Project’s original activities: (i) support the
preparation and dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza-related communication
material; and (ii) carry out preventive and social communication strategies through radio,
local newspapers, and other media; in addition it also financed acquisition of information
technology equipment to support the MOH Procurement Unit of the General Division for
Health Supply and Health Physical Resources, as well as municipal health networks.
Activities under Component 2b were partly financed with Project funds, and partly with
Government Budget due to the delayed availability of IDA funds.

1.7 Other significant changes
None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17.    The Project was in line with the CPS-39637-NI (August 2007) and the
Progress Report on the CPS-51616-NI (December 2009) for Nicaragua, and
preparation of the Project was highly participatory with strong Government ownership.
Notably, the Government was proactive in addressing the public health risk posed by the
A/H1N1 Human Influenza and developed a National Plan for the Prevention and
Response to the Human Influenza Epidemic in 2009, which outlined objectives and
budgetary needs, for which Bank support was requested.

                                            5
18.    Project design was appropriate to respond to the declared emergency and
took into account lessons learned from other projects in Nicaragua. The Health
Services Extension and Modernization Project (P078991), effective from 2005 until
2010, satisfactorily supported the implementation of the Community Health Care Model
and ensured the extension and improvement of basic health care services. As of October
2008, 45,167 individuals in targeted areas were receiving the basic package of health care
services.

19.    The Government took quick remedial action to reduce the procurement
risks, which had caused problems during the implementation of the Health Services
Extension and Modernization Project, and agreed on improving and supporting the MOH
procurement unit for the implementation of this emergency operation. The Project’s risk
matrix accurately assessed Project risks and related mitigation actions.

20.     The Bank Project Management worked intensely during preparation to
enable exceptions to Bank procedures that would facilitate PAHO-MOH
procurement arrangements. Due to PAHOs United Nations status, the agency could not
enter into a standard World Bank supply contract. In particular, the Bank Procurement
Guidelines are inconsistent with PAHO’s single audit principle (analogous to that of the
United Nations), which limits access to PAHO records to PAHO appointed investigators
and auditors. Bank management supported the request to waive (a) the Bank’s policy to
impose sanctions in the event of fraud and corruption (paragraph 1.14 (d) Guidelines),
and (b) the Bank’s right to require certain provisions in Bank-financed contracts that
allow the Bank to inspect and audit records of suppliers and service providers and their
subcontractors and sub-consultants (Paragraph 1.14 (e) Guidelines). Obtaining these
exceptions was very time consuming and primarily responsible for delays in declaring the
Project effective.

21.     The IAPP and the EMP were fully incorporated into the Project design. The
IAPP had been agreed between the MOH and representations of Indigenous and Afro-
Caribbean peoples. Since the Project was processed under the OP 8.00 Rapid Response to
Crisis and Emergencies, the planned social assessments, consultations and formulation of
the Plan were finalized after Project approval. The Project adapted and tailored the EMP
from the Health Service Extension and Modernization Project to the specific needs of the
Project’s emergency operation. Internationally accepted laboratory waste management
practices were implemented under this plan.

22.     Another innovative feature of the Project was the coordination and
alignment of donor activities under the Nicaragua Health SWAp. The Bank worked
particularly close with PAHO to coordinate donor efforts in line with the guiding
principles of OP/BP 8.00. PAHO actively supported national preparedness plans,
surveillance, vaccine availability, and plans for health care workers, communication
strategies, and other needed measures throughout the Americas. Therefore, PAHO was a
natural partner for the Bank in its effort to provide technical assistance to respond to the
A/H1N1 emergency.

                                             6
23.     Readiness conditions. The Project had two effectiveness conditions, which were
met by March 2010. No formal Quality Assurance Group review was undertaken for this
Project.

2.2 Implementation

24.    Project preparation took approximately 5 months from concept review to Board
approval, 3 months from Board approval to effectiveness and another 2 months to first
disbursement; the Project was then implemented over 27 months. The US$5 million Grant
(SDR 3.2 million) was approved by the Bank’s Board on December 17, 2009 and signed
on January 14, 2010. The Project became effective on March 26, 2010 and closed on June
30, 2012, the original Closing Date. The time from Concept Review to First
Disbursement took 11 months, which is rather long given the urgent nature of the
operation. The delay until first disbursement had the following consequences: (i) the
momentum of the epidemic had passed by the time Project funds could be used, which
made the implementation of some communication activities obsolete; and (ii) it took
longer than anticipated to receive the first shipment of medicines and equipment.
However, six months after becoming effective, the Project had already disbursed 87
percent of Grant proceeds, as the majority of funds were allocated for purchasing and
distributing goods (medicines, vaccines and protective and medical equipment). Another
critical issue was the limited capacity and quality of the storage facilities, which were
essential for the Project to ensure sufficient and timely access to relevant medicines, as
well as the limited capacity to manage storage facilities. In addition to IDA, the Project
implemented a US$300,000 Trust Fund (TF096740/ GFR-3094-NI) to support the
strengthening of the surveillance system.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.     Design. Project design focused on strengthening the capacity of the health system
to better fulfill surveillance functions and to respond fast and effectively to public health
emergencies, particularly the A/H1N1 Human Influenza epidemic, thereby reducing the
risk of illness and case fatality particularly among high-risk groups. The PAD foresaw
that the Grant would finance: (i) acquisition and distribution of medical equipment and
medicines, (ii) improvements to the epidemiological surveillance and related early
prevention program and systems; (iii) training for health workers, and (iv) a
communication strategy. The M&E framework as presented in the PAD includes ten
indicators, including two PDO indicators, to measure progress towards all Project
objectives. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) focused on a sub-set of six indicators to
simplify reporting, namely status of supplies, provisions, capacity and training and
household awareness about A/H1N1 preventive measures. The M&E framework covered
all PDOs, data was of moderate or good quality, and was derived from MOH records,
reports and performance audits.

26.     Implementation and Utilization. Overall, monitoring and evaluation were
satisfactorily implemented, earning the Project a satisfactory rating in this category. The
MOH and Project management team remained accountable for the original PAD
                                             7
indicators and targets and made sure that audited data on all ten Project indicators was
complete at the time of Project closing in June 2012. ISRs reflect an increase for three of
the Project targets, based on an informal agreement between the MOH and donors during
the course or Project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.    Safeguard Compliance Rating: Satisfactory. The Project triggered the Bank’s
Environmental Assessment and Indigenous Peoples safeguard policies. Both the
Indigenous Peoples and Environmental safeguard were implemented with only minor
shortcomings.

28.     Indigenous Safeguard. The Secretariats of Health of the Autonomous Regions of
North Atlantic Autonomous Region and South Atlantic Autonomous Region, the SILAIS
of these Regions, the Planning Office of the central MOH, and representatives from the
Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean groups were consulted during Project identification and
preparation. An IAPP was prepared and agreed with the Government. According to the
IAPP, the Project would (a) ensure access of the Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean to
Project benefits; and (b) ensure that the services were rendered in a culturally adequate
way. By Project completion, the outputs for those activities had all been completed,
including distribution of medicines and medical equipment in the Caribbean and Alto
Wanki regions, capacity building, and production of information material in indigenous
languages. Implementation took place in all SILAIS.

29.      Environmental Safeguard. The environmental category of the Project at the time
of appraisal was B?. For the Health Services Extension and Modernization Project, a
stand-alone Environmental Assessment and EMP was prepared, which was updated to
include procedures specific to prevention and response programs for epidemiological
emergencies. According to the Environmental Assessment and the updated EMP, Project
activities would support (a) a diagnosis of biomedical waste management; and (b) an
institutional framework and action plan for improving waste management practices. By
Project completion, capacity building measures on the proper use and disposal of
laboratory test kits were implemented under Component 2.

30.     Fiduciary Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. ISRs consistently rated fiduciary
performance satisfactory or moderately satisfactory during implementation. Procurement
performance was downgraded to moderately satisfactory towards the end of the Project
and financial management was downgraded to moderately satisfactory approximately one
year into Project implementation. With respect to procurement, there were recurrent
concerns about delays in completion of procurement procedures and inconsistencies in
the presentation of bidding documents. There were three principal financial management
problems throughout the Project: (i) weaknesses in monitoring and reporting resulting in
late submission of financial management reports and lack of support documentation; (ii)
weaknesses of internal control, resulting in missed updates of inventories; and (iii) delays
in the audit arrangements. However, annual audits were carried out on time, were without
qualification, and were generally followed by actions to implement the recommendations.

                                             8
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

31.     The Project was designed and executed as a crisis and emergency intervention,
and a follow up operation was not intended. However, Project activities are in line with
the National Plan for the Prevention and Response to the Human Influenza epidemic, and
complement prior and ongoing health sector operations supported by the Bank and other
external development partners. In particular, the Improving Community and Family
Health Care Services Project (P106870) continues to support Nicaragua’s response to
public health emergencies through its component 2: Creation of a Contingency Fund for
Public Health Emergency. In case of a declared emergency or crisis, this component will
become effective, thus recognizing the unpredictability of natural disaster, crisis, and
epidemic in the region, and allowing for a much more agile response. This component,
should it become active, benefits from the improved surveillance and response capacity
built during this emergency operation, as well as the procurement arrangements set in
place with PAHO for expedient purchase of goods in an emergency.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.     The relevance of the PDO was high at the time of preparation and remains
high today. The Project’s goal was to prepare the country for public health emergencies,
and increase the country’s capacity to prevent, recognize and treat cases of A/H1N1
Human Influenza. This was consistent with the Government’s Plans and priorities at the
time of approval; and with the 2007 CPS objectives in the health sector, including
strengthening health services in the poorest municipalities. The Project was designed and
executed as response to a crisis and emergency and consistently improved the health
system capacity to respond to epidemiologic crisis. The risks of epidemiologic and other
public health emergencies and the need to mitigate the effects of epidemics on the high-
risk population and the health system remain highly relevant for Nicaragua. A/H1N1
Human Influenza is spreading in similar way as the regular seasonal influenza, and
despite the number of cases being lower this year as compared to 2009, there is continued
potential for fluctuations in severity and infection rates with A/H1N1 and other influenza
strains (e.g. A\H3N2).

33.    Project design was relevant, identifying activities that responded to the needs
of Nicaragua’s health sector and considering relevant experiences in previous health
projects in Nicaragua and similar emergency projects abroad. A significant part of
the grant was used for the purchase of eligible medicines, and a smaller proportion
financed technical assistance and capacity building for epidemiologic surveillance and
preparedness. Instead of investing primarily in antiviral drugs or vaccines, as done by
other emergency projects, this Project acquired a larger share of medicine for the
treatment of secondary infections and severe complications. Populations at elevated risk
of infections and complications, such as pregnant women, the elderly and immune-
depressed, were the focus of this strategy.

                                            9
34.      The Project design successfully mitigated the risk related to uncertainties
about the timing and extent of the A/H1N1 epidemic. Purchasing mostly antibiotics
for the treatment of secondary infections and super-infections made the Project more
versatile and responsive, because these medicines are effective in the event of an A/H1N1
epidemic, but are not specific to influenza treatment. Other benefits of this approach are
(i) that the antibiotics are useful for beneficiaries even when the momentum of the
A/H1N1 epidemic has ceased; and (ii) the time during which the antibiotics can be
administered is broader than the time-frame for relevant antivirals (48 hours after disease
onset). The first component, Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies, addressed
supply-side problems of health care provision for A/H1N1 Human Influenza in the event
of an epidemic. The focus was on providing the necessary protective equipment and
administering treatment to prevent spread of the disease and reduce the number of case
fatalities. The second component, Strengthening Epidemiologic Surveillance and
Prevention Programs, was designed to respond to the need of having an effective
surveillance system in place that has the capacity to collect and process relevant data on
disease outbreak and spread. The third and last component, Management and Monitoring,
aimed to address the weak institutional capacity of the MOH to undertake procurement
and financial management activities. In addition, this component successfully supported
financial and technical audits, and the activities under the EMP and the IAPP.

35.     Project implementation responded to the evolving needs in a timely and
flexible manner. This was facilitated by the fact that the Government showed strong
ownership and dedication to the Project’s objectives. It should be mentioned that the
Government considers public participation a key component of the new model of human
development, and favors policies, projects and programs that involve families, youth,
women, men, as protagonists of the response against A/H1N1 Human Influenza. There
was no need for major amendments given the relevant PDO, scope of activities and
flexible design. Reallocation of savings could be easily accommodated as it was in
accordance with the overall Project design, objectives and Government priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.     The Project achieved its Development Objective as measured by progress on two
Project Development Indicators and eight Intermediate Project Indicators. One PDO
indicator, the number of public health laboratories (located in SILAIS) conducting
A/H1N1 diagnoses, was fully achieved, while the second PDO indicator, the percentage
of medical supplies distributed timely to SILAIS according to the MOH proposed Plan,
was partially achieved due to delays in distributing relevant medicine and equipment,
financed with Project funds. The Government was, however, able to stick to the
distribution plan by covering initial drug purchases with own funds, which led to full
compliance with the target of 100 percent.

37.    Six out of eight of the intermediate indicators were fully achieved, and among
those, four surpassed their targets. The final intermediate indicator, measuring the
percentage of SILAIS compliant with surveillance guidelines receiving a satisfactory or

                                            10
better rating, showed significant progress as compared to baseline, surpassed the first
year target, and was partially achieved, within 10 percent of the envisioned target. The
reason for partial achievement of two indicators was caused by delays in shipment and
distribution of supplies, as well as less the optimal compliance with surveillance
guidelines by some health facilities.

38.     In particular, the Project contributed to the following key results:
  • Nicaragua’s epidemiologic emergency preparedness and surveillance capacity
    improved substantially, as reflected in the availability of appropriately equipped
    facilities, availability of relevant medicines and trained personnel. The minimum
    defined stock of A/H1N1 relevant medicines was available in all 17 SILAIS. Four
    laboratories were certified on A/H1N1 control, representing 100 percent of the
    envisioned target, and a total number of 21 diagnostic laboratories were put in place,
    surpassing the envisioned target by 21 percent. In addition 11,501 professionals and
    support personnel were trained in surveillance guidelines.
  • The capacity of the Nicaraguan Health System to effectively treat secondary
    infections in the case of human influenza improved, as reflected by 31 hospitals
    (115 percent) with staff certified in A/H1N1 Human Influenza control, and the
    number of health workers with training in diagnosis, treatment and care of influenza
    patients improved substantially: by end-Project, 15,090 people were trained,
    surpassing the target by 30 percent.
 • The population is increasingly aware of preventive measures against A/H1N1
     Human Influenza. The measure increased by 33 percentage points during one year
     of Project implementation, surpassing the target of 80 percent by 13 percentage
     points. This finding is partly attributable to the rollout of the Bank-supported
     communication and prevention strategy.

39.    All indicators had a baseline value at time of Project approval, and follow-up
information became available in a timely manner during Project implementation, which
allowed for a close tracking of progress. All six measures used to track achievement of
the development objective are output indicators and can be directly attributed to the
inputs provided by the Grant, the related Trust Fund (TF096740/ GFR-3094-NI), the
Bank’s technical assistance and the work done by the MOH.

3.3 Efficiency

40.     The Project was very efficient, given that the Project cost less than US$0.4 per
inhabitant, per year of Project implementation. The economic and financial analysis
considered the impact of components 1 and 2. The same methodology was used as for
other A/H1N1 Human Influenza preparedness projects in the region (e.g. Mexico-
P116965). In the first scenario, the analysis assumed that the Project activities focused on
monitoring the dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza virus, while a second
scenario considered that the costs and benefits of Project activities would lead to
minimized morbidity and mortality. For the latter, the number of life years lost under
various infectious diseases, given common mortality rates, was estimated, and as
expected, in all cases, benefits were higher than costs.

                                            11
41.     The analysis suggested (i) positive net benefits resulting from comparing the total
fiscal impact this represents for the Government of Nicaragua with the expected total
benefits of the intervention; and (ii) positive externalities such as improved preparedness
and capacity to respond to the future epidemiological emergencies. Under the scenario of
a mortality rate equivalent to 3.0 times the mortality rate for seasonal influenza and a 30
percent attack rate 7, the net present value of the lives saved through the activities of this
Project would exceed the costs of strengthening response capacity by a factor of 3:1. The
internal rate of return for the proposed Project was estimated to be 38 percent, reflecting
high benefits relative to Project costs. Therefore, Project interventions were considered
cost-effective.

42.      Ultimately, the A/H1N1 Human Influenza did not materialize in the projected
way, leading to lower than anticipated mortality and attack rates due to influenza during
the life of the Project. Following the year 2009, where Nicaragua had the highest number
of confirmed cases in the region, with 2,175 cases and 11 case fatalities, subsequent years
showed only 10 (2010) and 726 (2011) cases 8. Therefore, it can be concluded that the
benefit from positive Project externalities, such as improved preparedness and capacity to
respond to future epidemiological emergencies, was more important than the benefit from
monitoring the dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza virus during the life of the
Project and from minimizing related morbidity and mortality. Instead of mitigating
current events, the Project brought sustained improvements to the country’s surveillance
system and epidemiologic preparedness, and maintains the potential to save lives; hence
it maintains the internal rate of return relative to Project costs for future epidemics.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

43.    The Project’s overall outcome rating is satisfactory as its design was relevant to
the needs of Nicaragua at the time of the appraisal and at the time of Project closing. It
responded to an urgent need of the country and was in line with the National
Epidemiologic Emergency Response Plan and the Project was delivered in a coordinated
manner with respect to other donor’s sector support. Project implementation responded
well to evolving needs and was extremely efficient. The Project is responsible for
important achievements, including meeting the development objective, and nearly all of
its expected outputs. Project interventions have directly contributed to Nicaragua’s


7
  The attack rate is defined as the percentage of the population with clinical symptoms of the illness, which
cause a quantitative effect (e.g. a loss of a work day). In this analysis, three different attack rates were
assumed for an 8 week outbreak: 5 percent, 15 percent, and 30 percent. This assumption was made on the
basis of former influenza epidemics and their attack rates. The mortality rate is defined as the percentage of
deaths of the population with clinical symptoms of the illness. In this analysis, three different mortality
rates were considered: mortality rate 1 (equivalent to the mortality rate of influenza epidemic), mortality
rate 2 ( = 2.5 times mortality rate 1) and mortality rate 3 ( = 5.0 times mortality rate 1).
8
  Dirección General e Vigilancia para la Salud 2012, Informe De Auditoría Técnica De La Ejecución De
Las Donaciones Del Banco Mundial. Ministerio de Salud de Nicaragua, Dirección General de Planificación
y Desarrollo.

                                                     12
capacity to adequately respond to epidemiological emergencies in the future, and to
strengthen the epidemiological surveillance and prevention functions.

44.     The Project responded to an urgent request from the Government to provide
technical and financial assistance to manage an epidemiological emergency. The
proposed operation was processed under OP/BP 8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies to support: (i) preserving or restoring essential services (OP 8.00 4 c); (ii)
preserving human, institutional, and/or social capital, including economic reintegration of
vulnerable groups (OP 8.00 4 d); and (iii) supporting measures to mitigate or avert the
potential effects of imminent emergencies or future emergencies or crises in countries at
high risk (OP 8.00 4 g).

45.    The activities of the Project were well aligned with other external
development partners, participating in the Donor Roundtable under the framework
of the health SWAp in Nicaragua. Bank activities in the health sector complemented
other Government and donor-financed projects and interventions in a meaningful way
and were well aligned.

46.     The relevance of the PDO was high at the time of preparation and remains
high today. Project activities responded to the needs of Nicaragua’s health sector and
were consistent with the CPS and CPS Progress Report. The activities addressed the need
for improved prevention, monitoring and treatment of A/H1N1 Human Influenza. The
Project sought to (i) enable laboratories to provide competent diagnostic services for
A/H1N1, (ii) assure sufficient stock of A/H1N1 related medicines, availability of
certified laboratories and hospitals competent in diagnosis, case management and disease
control, as well as (iii) train health personnel in diagnostics, treatment and care. The
Project also strove to implement a communication and prevention strategy, which was
achieved at a limited scope due to lower demand.

47.     A weakness of the Project was that it took comparatively long for an
emergency operation to become effective, and this delay contributed to the Project’s
timing being disconnected from the peak time of the epidemic. Therefore, the objective
of controlling spread and effects of A/H1N1 Human Influenza, as well as treatment of
affected populations could not be achieved with Project funds in 2009 and in consecutive
years, the number of confirmed cases was not of the same magnitude anymore.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.    The Project did not include any specific impact measurement on poverty or
gender. Notwithstanding, public health interventions in general have a very strong
poverty focus since they provide essentially public goods such as surveillance,
immunizations, medicines, health education and promotion, etc.




                                            13
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     While the Project was not primarily focused on supporting institutional change at
the central level, it did bring about the intended institutional change at the Department
level. Human resource capacity has been strengthened substantially, and municipalities
have become enabled to respond to epidemiologic emergencies. One activity that is worth
mentioning here is the establishment of sentinel epidemiologic surveillance sites, using
schools facilities to set up computers for data entry. This way the surveillance capacity
could be expanded in an efficient and cost-effective way. The human resource capacity
and the important institutional changes at the Department level the Project helped to
accomplish contributed to the expansion of the surveillance network at the central level.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

50.    In preparation of its completion report, the MOH technical audit team carried out
beneficiary interviews with 60 heads of households in the 17 SILAIS in 2012. While the
sample is not statistically representative, it provides insights about the effect of the
communication strategy that was implemented under the communication plan. Key
findings are listed below:
     • 95 percent of respondents could identify symptoms of influenza.
     • 93.3 percent could correctly identify ways of transmission of A/H1N1 influenza.
     • 98.3 percent of respondents were familiar with ways to prevent influenza
        infection.
     • 87 percent of respondents could identify correct behaviors in case of influenza
        infection.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

51.     The assessment of risk to development outcome is rated as moderate. The gains of
the Project are comparatively stable, but they require continued political and financial
commitment to ensure long term sustainability. Important components of the Nicaraguan
health system need to be further strengthened and improved in order to ensure good
response in case of emergencies, most notably improved institutional and management
capacity, designation of good quality storage facilities for optimized shelf life of
medicines, adoption of accountability mechanisms for storage facilities, and integration
of situation rooms into the emergency response system. There are two specific risks that
could threaten development outcomes.

52.     The first risk is the potential cutback in the provision of health services, as
was the case in 2006. Nicaragua experienced a health sector strike in 2006, which
resulted in hospitals and health clinics reducing services for more than six months. If this
were to happen again, important gains made by training health personnel in preventing,

                                            14
recognizing and treating influenza would be diminished and critical delays would most
likely occur.

53.     The second risk relates to the availability of external health sector funding.
Given the health sector’s traditionally high inflows of external assistance, especially in
times of crisis and emergency, a significant reduction could affect the continuity and
availability of preventive services and treatment in case of an influenza epidemic.
However, the Government is making provisions to ensure a sustained level of funding for
disease surveillance and emergencies. Fewer resources would require a more efficient use
and management of these funds, including maximizing shelf life of medicines and
efficient procurement mechanisms, as done through PAHO’s revolving fund for this
Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.     The Bank team responded almost immediately to the Borrower’s request to
provide support to the implementation of the National Plan for the Prevention and
Response to the A/H1N1 Human Influenza Epidemic, and the Bank’s response was in
line and well-coordinated with other donors supporting the Nicaraguan Health SWAp.
The Bank worked closely with the Borrower during the preparation phase and provided
support in the most efficient way. The innovative element during the preparation phase
was the legal groundwork done to put in place the beneficial PAHO-MOH procurement
arrangements. Financial and technical assistance allowed the Government of Nicaragua
to carry out an IAPP, including appropriate consultations with representations with
Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean peoples groups, and a biomedical waste management
plan. Risk assessment was comprehensive and realistic. The Project was well designed,
preparation was thorough, and the results framework was appropriate and manageable.
However, the procurement policy exceptions necessary for the collaboration with PAHO
caused initial delays. The process was also slowed down by insufficient safeguard
compliance and a misprocurement issue 9 of a then ongoing health operation (Cr. 4050) in
Nicaragua. The Bank behaved proactively and partially compensated for the initial delays
once the Project had become effective. Despite the efforts made to compensate for the
delays caused by the Bank, the fact that this was an emergency operation needs to be
taken into account. Bank funds were not available on time and no provision was made for
retroactive financing; therefore, the rating for this category is moderately satisfactory.




9
 The Bank and the Government agreed on the appropriate action to recover cancelled funds due to
misprocurement. The Government refunded the requested amount on November 10, 2009 and began
implementing an action plan to mitigate and to reduce risk in the procurement processes.

                                                 15
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

55.     Supervision was very results-oriented and responded well to the changes in
national priorities, when the epidemic did not materialize in the projected way.
Supervision inputs and processes were appropriate and all issues that arose during the life
of the Project were resolved in a timely and appropriate manner. Fiduciary and safeguard
policies were satisfactorily implemented. Performance reporting was informative,
however, reports could have been more comprehensive and process-oriented.

56.     The Project was restructured in March 2011 and loan proceeds were reallocated
among components. In addition, higher targets were set for selected indicators, in
accordance with targets formulated by MOH and the donor roundtable, to better reflect
these changes in national priorities and need, for example, the increased emphasis on
human resources. Bank supervision relied heavily on local Bank office procurement and
financial management staff for frequent monitoring and follow-up with the MOH. The
addition of annual technical and financial audits as well as bi-annual performance audits
proved effective in holding the Government responsible for results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.    The overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory based on a
Moderately Satisfactory rating for Quality at Entry and a Satisfactory rating for
Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     The loan was initially granted based on an urgent request for assistance and the
Government showed commitment to the PDO during Project implementation. The
Government‘s health sector goals remained relevant with regards to the PDO throughout
the life of the Project, and even during the election period in 2011, support remained
strong. The Ministry of Finance was supportive at all times. Other health sector
stakeholders, including UNICEF and PAHO, also granted assistance to the National Plan
for Prevention and Response to Human Influenza. The Nicaraguan Health Sector Support
Fund receives counterpart funding in the form of annual commitments by a number of
bilateral and multilateral donors.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                            16
59.    Day-to-day management of Project activities and financial responsibilities were
governed by different Divisions within the MOH. The MOH’s General Division for
Planning and Development (GDPD) served as the Project Coordination Unit. For
component 1, the GDPD conducted the Project implementation in coordination with the
General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical Resources and other relevant
line units within MOH. For component 2, the GDPD also coordinated efforts with the
General Directorate of Extension and Quality of Health Services (GDEQHS), the General
Directorate for Training and Research, the General Directorate for Public Health
Surveillance (GDPHS), and the Diagnostics and Reference National Center. The General
Directorate of Financial Administration was responsible for financial management
arrangements.

60.     The MOH was highly committed to achieving the results established under the
Project. It supported implementation and executed its coordination and steering function
as Project leader in an effective way. Overall donor coordination worked well, even
throughout the 2011 election, during which some donors changed commitments.
Nonetheless, the procurement and fiduciary management capacity was weak and led to
regular delays in preparation of contracts and bidding documents.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     Based on the performance of the Government and the MOH during preparation,
implementation and Project completion, the borrower’s performance is rated as
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Design

62.     Project design allowed for a flexible response to the epidemic, by adopting a
strategy that focused on populations at high risk for secondary infections, and by
acquiring medicine with a broader indication and time frame for effectiveness. The PDO
remained relevant throughout the life of the Project.

63.     Partnerships were very successful. Project management was able to facilitate
the use of the PAHO’s revolving fund system for the cost-effective supply of medicines
and protective equipment for health workers included in component 1. Using PAHO as a
main supplier ensured rapid transactions, lower prices, high quality products, and reduced
management risks. Both IDA and donors were responsive and played a fundamental role
in promoting improvements in Nicaragua’s epidemiological response and preparedness.
PAHO also played a key role in supporting national preparedness plans, surveillance and
training, making the organization a key partner for related Bank operations in the region.

64.    Use of retroactive financing in the event of delayed effectiveness and first
disbursement. The first procurement had to be covered by the MOH’s “Reserva
Nacional? (National Reserve) because the Bank was not able to release funds early on.

                                           17
This was owed to the fact that several exceptions to regular Bank procedures had to be
made to enable procurement through PAHO’s revolving fund mechanism. Inclusion of a
retroactive financing option for similar operations could have helped to cover the initial
cost for relevant procurement with World Bank funds. Future Projects planning to use a
similar procurement mechanism may be replicated by other projects.

65.     Emergency projects like this one need to be kept simple, flexible and focused
on solving the problem. Therefore the Bank needs to ensure that procurement
policies can be used flexibly, and that decisions can be made efficiently. This
operation had some problems with timing. The Project was able to compensate for the
time lost, because of its focus on building long-term capacity for surveillance and
prevention. The Monitoring & Results Framework was succinct and appropriate for the
emergency operation and covered all development objectives.

66.     The Project design would have benefitted from including a thorough
economic analysis, as well as an impact analysis with data on treatment, service
utilization, and effectiveness of the surveillance system. The Results Framework
reflects mostly outputs from Project activities, and quantitative data on the status and
effectiveness of the surveillance system was not routinely available for inclusion in this
report. This lesson should be taken into account for the design of similar Projects, where
one of the main goals is to build surveillance capacity.

Implementation

67.    Selection of sentinel surveillance sites and community agents proved to be a
good way of increasing the surveillance capacity without having to establish new and
costly infrastructure. This approach can likely be adopted by other countries with
otherwise limited surveillance capacity, and has the potential to increase timely
availability of epidemiological data.

68.     Limited availability and low quality of storage facilities and poor
accountability mechanisms for storage facilities threaten the duration of shelf-life of
relevant medicines and their effectiveness and availability when most needed. The
capacity and quality of the storage facilities limited the ability of the Project to ensure
sufficient and timely access to relevant medicines.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
 (a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A

                                            18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                 Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)

Responding to Epidemiological
                                 4,200,000        4,196,352       100.00%
Emergencies
Strengthening the Republic of
Nicaragua’s Epidemiological
                                   720,000         495,740         69.00%
Surveillance and Prevention
Programs
Project Management and
                                    80,000          35,861         45.00%
Monitoring

        Total Baseline Cost 5,000,000             4,727,953        94.60%
   Variation due to exchange
                                                   272,047         5.40%
                         rate
Physical Contingencies
                                       0.00           0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       0.00           0.00          0.00

          Total Project Costs 5,000,000       5,000,000           100.00%
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00            0.00          .00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00            0.00          .00
   Total Financing Required 5,000,000         5,000,000           100.00%




(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal Actual/Late
                                  Type of   Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                Cofinancing  (USD        (USD     of Appraisal
                                            millions)  millions)
 Borrower                                     0.00        0.00         .00
IDA Grant                           N/A       5.00        5.00       100.00




                                        19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      The objective of this Project was to strengthen the capacity of the Republic of
Nicaragua’s health system to control of the spread and the effects of A/H1N1 Human
influenza through prevention, monitoring, and treatment of affected populations, with
special attention to high-risk groups. At the same time, the Project outputs improved the
countries’ ability to respond to crisis caused by other infectious agents, including other
strains of influenza.

2.      The General Division for Planning and Development (GDPD) implemented this
Project in coordination with the General Division for Health Supply and Health Physical
Resources, and the General Directorate for Public Health Surveillance (GDPHS).

3.      The morbidity and mortality due to Influenza A/H1N1 in Nicaragua dropped
between 2009 and 2012 to pre-pandemic levels; however this trend is not primarily
attributable to the intervention, as the incidence of Influenza A/H1N1 had dropped even
prior to the Project’s effectiveness.

Figure: Morbidity and Mortality Rate due to Severe Acute Respiratory Infections in
                         Nicaragua, 2008 – June 2012

  Rate x 10,000                                                             Morbidity Rate
  Inhab.                                                                    Mortality Rate
 16
 14                       14.51

 12
 10
  8                                    8.12           8.6

  6
  4                                                               3.81
  2          1.7
             1.08         1.03         0.91           0.69
  0                                                               0.21
         2008         2009         2010            2011      12-Jun

       Source:        DNVD

4.   The PDO was achieved through the following inputs, processes and outputs by
Component:

5.     Component 1: Responding to Epidemiological Emergencies. The component
aimed at increasing the Government’s capacity to prevent and limit severe illness or
death among infected populations.




                                              20
6.      The first sub-component (US$3.7 million) was intended to (i) finance the
acquisition and distribution of eligible medicines and medical supplies; (ii) reduce the
number of people with A/H1N1 Human Influenza and the number of case fatalities; (iii)
specifically target individuals at greater risk of contracting other illnesses than the general
population.

7.     Medicines and other eligible medical supplies were purchased in a cost efficient
way using PAHO’s revolving fund mechanism. All 17 SILAIS received sufficient stock
of medicines, according to the distribution plan. The 19 medicines purchased were useful
for the treatment of groups at high risk of contracting secondary infections and
experiencing complications. Among the products purchased were the following: aspirin,
amoxicillin, azithromycin, penicillin, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin,
chloramphenicol, clotrimaxol, cloxacillin, dopamine, epinephrine, erythromycin,
hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, acetaminophen in solution, tablet acetaminophen,
and vancomycin.

8.       Public Health Emergency Preparedness includes a full range of prevention,
mitigation, and recovery activities, not just those designed to enable responses to events.
It also involves operational capabilities—the ability to quickly execute preparedness tasks.
Possessing the operational capabilities to respond requires capacity (e.g. infrastructure,
human resources, and plans). Creating capacity is therefore the prerequisite for timely
and effective action in the case of a public health emergency. The Project has achieved
this goal by strengthening the human resources of all 17 SILAIS and by enhancing
infrastructure and supplies necessary to prevent, diagnose, and treat cases of A/H1N1
Human Influenza , as well as other types of Influenza.

                                    Outcome Indicators

Partially achieved: Number of weeks of delayed delivery for medicines procured by
PAHO
               • Baseline: 0 weeks delay
               • Target: 0 weeks delay
               • Actual: Shipping dates and due dates of arrivals show a range of 2
                  days to 2 weeks; however a subset of materials and laboratory reagents
                  were delivered within 6 weeks and 16 weeks.

Achieved: Proportion of SILAIS that have at least the minimum defined stock of
A/H1N1 influenza related medicines

               •   Baseline: 0 percent (2009)
               •   Target: 100 percent
               •   Actual: 100 percent (2012)

Outcome: Increased capacity to treat affected populations, and enhanced capacity for
prevention and control of influenza spread and effects.


                                              21
9.      The second sub-component (US$500,000) was designed to: (i) strengthen the
Republic of Nicaragua’s Immunization Program through the provision and distribution of
protective medical equipment for health care workers; and (ii) administer the vaccine
against A/H1N1 human influenza after becoming available. According to records of the
Center for Health Inputs (CIPS), 731.000 disposable masks for personal protection were
delivered. The favorable procurement through PAHO made it possible to save resources,
which could then be used for the purchase of units of influenza vaccines.

10.     Several factors contributed to delays in the delivery of medicines and supplies:
• Delays in signing the agreement with PAHO, frequent re-bidding, and high market
    demand for medicine and supplies, as well as slow disbursement by World Bank.
• Delays during shipment and clearing customs.
• Insufficient compliance with cold chain requirements by network distributors.
• Weaknesses in the Center for Health Products (CIPS) logistic, and drug storage
    capacity. The SILAIS could compensate for the late arrival of some drugs due to
    sufficient reserves at the CIPS level from the year preceding the intervention.

11.     Component 2. Strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua’s Epidemiological
Surveillance and Prevention Programs (US$720,000). The component aimed at
strengthening the Republic of Nicaragua’s epidemiologic surveillance and early
prevention programs and systems at the departmental level. This component had two sub-
components. Sub-component A (US$640,000) would strengthen the epidemiological
surveillance and prevention strategy, including the Republic’s existing network of
national and sub-national health laboratories through (a) the acquisition of laboratory
equipment, laboratory reagents, and computers; (b) the updating of the Epidemiological
Surveillance Guidelines; (c) the updating of current procedures for biomedical waste
management; (d) the provision of training to inter alia MOH staff, traditional health
workers, teachers and other community leaders on (i) monitoring, treatment and
prevention of negative effects of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza; (ii) the use and disposal
of laboratory kits; (iii) the interpretation of results in SILAIS health laboratories; (iv) the
updated epidemiological surveillance guidelines.

12.     Training activities exceeded by far the initial targets. More than 7,000 health
workers were trained on how to properly diagnose, treat, and care for victims of A/H1N1
Human Influenza; and more than 11,000 professionals were trained with surveillance
guidelines. Furthermore a manual was developed covering basic concepts of biosafety,
handling of relevant equipment, disinfection and sterilization, as well as waste
management and laboratory risks. Among 23 publicly governed hospitals, 21 had staff
certified in infection control and case management. In addition to these hospitals, training
was provided to a number of staff from private hospitals and institutions, thereby
surpassing the target of 27 hospitals with trained staff, by 15 percent.




                                              22
                           Intermediate Outcome Indicators

Partially achieved: Percentage of SILAIS compliant with surveillance guidelines,
receiving a satisfactory or better rating.

              •   Baseline:  0 percent (2009)
              •   Target: 100 percent
              •   Actual:   89.5 percent (2012)

Achieved: Number of laboratories certified in infection control and case management.

              •   Baseline: 0 (2009)
              •   Target:   4
              •   Actual:   4 (2012)

Exceeded: Number of hospitals with staff certified in infection control and case
management.
            • Baseline:      0 (2009)
            • Target:      27
            • Actual:      31 (2012)

Exceeded: Number of professionals and support personnel trained with surveillance
guidelines.
            • Baseline:       0 (2009)
            • Target:       200
            • Actual: 11,501 (2012)

Exceeded: Number of health workers trained on how to properly diagnose, treat, and
care for victims.

              •   Baseline:  0       (2009)
              •   Target: 2000
              •   Actual: 7473       (2012)

Exceeded: Percentage of heads of household aware of prevention measures against
A/H1N1 influenza.
             • Baseline:       0 (2009)
             • Target:       80
             • Actual:       98.3 (2012)

Outcome: Increased capacity for prevention & monitoring A/H1N1 Human Influenza,
and enhanced control of spread and effects of A/H1N1.

13.   In a subset of six SILAIS, the audit firm conducted interviews with 19 health
workers. All of them knew about the existence of a management protocol for patients

                                           23
with A/H1N1 Human Influenza. 94.7 percent of respondents had the National Plan, the
Surveillance, Prevention and Control Guideline and all required forms in place. Among
the missing items at the hospital, situation room and municipal level were maps, booklets
(“cartillas rosadas?), data tables and graphs on influenza. Out of 38 surveillance workers
at the hospital, health center, and SILAIS, 86.8 percent had satisfactory knowledge about
specific epidemiologic procedures and surveillance norms. Knowledge gaps were mostly
related to the correct placement and removal of personal protective equipment.

14.     Sub-component B (US$80,000) would (i) support the preparation and
dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza-related communication material; and (ii)
carry out preventive and social communication strategies through radio, local newspapers,
and other media. Nicaragua initiated advocacy, promotion and training about pandemic
influenza in 2008, at the time of the first pandemic alert. Communication activities under
this Project commenced early on, but Bank funds were not available for several months,
due to early delays.

15.    The National Plan guided the implementation of the communication and
prevention campaign, including the design of media education material, educational
booklets for lectures and workshops, radio spots with prevention messages, etc. Norms
and regulations regarding pandemic influenza have been available at the MOH webpage
since 2009, to make them openly accessible for a wider audience (MOH 2012).

16.    The population of Nicaragua was sensitized with promotion and prevention
messages, delivered through the media and visits to approximately 900,000 homes. The
communication strategy was carried out with support from local health networks, social
communicators, volunteers and many others. A high level of community participation
shaped the implementation of the communication strategy.

17.     A survey including 60 heads of household from different SILAIS yielded good
results about their knowledge about A/H1N1 Human Influenza. Almost all respondents
(98.3 percent) were able to correctly identify preventive measures against A/H1N1
Human Influenza. This finding is not representative but leads to the assumption that the
level of population awareness and knowledge about pandemic influenza is high, and that
the communication plan and the public participation under this Project contributed to the
present level of awareness.

18.     Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring (US$80,000). This
component was designed to support (i) the management of the Project through provision
of procurement and financial management services; (ii) execution of activities laid out in
the EMP; (iii) execution of activities as laid out in the IAPP; and (iv) execution of
financial and technical audits. No intermediate outcome indicator was linked to this
component. Annual audits were carried out in a timely manner and completed to full
satisfaction.

19.    Case Management Standards for A/H1N1influenza were implemented in 33
hospital units, under the framework of the National Emergency Plan. Capacity building

                                           24
measures on the proper use and disposal of laboratory kits were integrated in component
2 training activities.

20.       The Project supported the design of the EMP, outlining the following objectives:
      •   Strengthen the capacity of the MOH stewardship to incorporate and develop
          practices and environmental management activities in health facilities.
      •   Contribute to strengthening of the environmental health surveillance, preventive
          measures and infection control, and adopting modern information technology.
      •   Ensure compliance with environmental measures at all stages of the Project,
          according to the Terms of Reference, with MOH personnel assigned to the
          supervision of each Project.
      •   Strengthen the promotion, and visibility of preventive measures, like hygiene and
          hand washing, prevention of laboratory accidents, knowledge and use of warning
          signs and symbols, and use of personal protective equipment within the health
          facilities.
      •   Integrate the environmental management component as part of the Community
          and Family Health Model in health facilities.

21.    Activities laid out in the IAPP were fully implemented in all 17 SILAIS.
Indigenous and Afro-Caribbean groups were targeted by information, education and
communication strategies with the objective to convey information on healthy habits and
preventive measures.

22.    Medicines and supplies were delivered to regions with Indigenous and Afro-
Caribbean groups present according to distribution plans, including Alto Wanky and
Bonkay region. In addition educational activities were conducted focusing on all levels of
prevention. Special attention was given to quality of care for people with A/H1N1
Human Influenza, and good monitoring and case management practices.

23.     The interventions under the IAPP yielded good results. The indigenous
population, participated actively in education processes, and provided positive feedback
on the activities. The strategy and referral from communities into the MOH service
network was successful, and communication between health personnel and patients took
place in native language.

24.    The collaborative work with indigenous people groups during this Project
highlighted that increased attention for the interface between traditional and conventional
medicine is paramount to improve access and response to health problems among
indigenous peoples.




                                             25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.       The economic evaluation compares the Project costs against its expected benefits.
The estimations consider the impact of Project components 1 and 2. The economic
analysis at appraisal assumed two possible scenarios (i) Project activities focus on
monitoring the dissemination of the A/H1N1 Human Influenza virus, while (ii) costs and
benefits of Project activities lead to minimize morbidity and mortality. The activities
under this Project potentially benefit the entire population of Nicaragua, because
enhanced surveillance capacity, prevention and monitoring of influenza limit the
circulation of the virus in the environment and reduce infection rates. The Project covered
all of the 17 health departments (SILAIS) of Nicaragua, therefore increasing availability
of relevant medicines and equipment for the whole population of 5.7 million.

2.     The Project was implemented over 27 months and total Project cost was US$5
million. Therefore the cost of the intervention per person per year of Project life was less
than US$0.4. This is a modest contribution for achieving increased access to relevant
medicines and equipment, prevention, monitoring and surveillance of epidemiologic
emergencies, even beyond the implementation phase of the Project. The interventions
remain relevant, thanks to the enormous human resource capacities built. The countries
disease preparedness and surveillance was strengthened for years to come. Public Health
Emergency Preparedness is not a steady state; it requires continuous improvement,
including frequent testing of plans through drills and exercises and the formulation and
execution of corrective action plans. Public Health Emergency Preparedness also
includes the practice of improving the health and resiliency of communities.

3.      The decrease of morbidity and mortality from pandemic influenza was not
directly attributable to the Project interventions, as the decrease started before the Project
was declared effective. The drops in morbidity and mortality can be explained as the
natural course of the epidemic, and was influenced by the MOH’s efforts.

4.      Apart from any longer term human health valuations, there have been many
immediate benefits. Looking more broadly at the benefits in the health care sector, the
provision of antibiotics can be credited with having saved a number of lives of people
suffering from various conditions, including non-influenza respiratory disease. Also, the
laboratory capacity has played a role in Nicaragua’s ability to treat other types of human
influenza and fulfill its international reporting responsibilities on that disease.

5.      Similarly, the refurbished health facilities and laboratories provide benefits
beyond the ability simply to diagnose and manage A/H1N1 Human Influenza. The
country suffers from other airborne and viral infections, like dengue. The improved
ability to collect samples and properly diagnose them is expected to play a significant
role in preventing contagion in such diseases.

6.      Under a potential future scenario of a mortality rate equivalent to 3.0 times the
mortality rate for seasonal influenza, and 30 percent attack rate, the net present value of
the lives saved through the activities of this Project exceeds the costs of strengthening

                                             26
response capacity by a factor of 3:1. The internal rate of return for the Project under this
scenario would then be estimated to be 38 percent, reflecting high benefits relative to
Project costs.




                                            27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                       Title                    Unit
Lending
Carlos Marcelo Bortman Task Team Leader                       LCSHH
Gunnar H. Platais       Senior Environmental Economist        LCSEN
Kristine M. Ivarsdottir Senior Social Development             LCSSO
                        Specialist
Annemarie Guth Proite   Procurement Specialist
Enrique Antonio Roman Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM
Sarah Berger Gonzalez   Social Protection Specialist          LCSHH
Miriam Matilde          Operations Officer                    LCSHS
Montenegro Lazo
Christina Novinskey     ET Consultant                         LCSHH
Jorge C. Barrientos     Consultant                            LCSHH
Sergia Cubillan         Consultant                            LCSHH
Supervision/ ICR
Rafael Cortez           Task Team Leader                      LCSHH
Amparo Elena Gordillo-  Task Team Leader                      LCSHH
Tobar
Maryanne Sharp          ICR Team Leader                       LCSHH
Saskia A. Nahrgang      ICR Author                            LCSHH
Gunnar H. Platais       Senior Environmental Economist        LCSEN
Kristine M. Ivarsdottir Senior Social Development             LCSSO
                        Specialist
Enrique Antonio Roman Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM
Miriam Matilde          Operations Officer                    LCSHS
Montenegro Lazo
Leonel Estrada          Consultant                            LCSPT
Sonia M. Levere         Team Assistant                        LCSHH




                                      28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
                         Lending
                           FY 10        11.21                    45,930

                          Total:                               45,930
Supervision/ICR
                           FY 10            0.8                 2,328
                           FY 11            4.36               19,091
                           FY 12            6.97               40,475
                           FY 13            2.42               10,540

                          Total:          25.76                72,434




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.       One beneficiary survey was carried out between November 2011 and
January 2012 aiming at obtaining information on the knowledge about A/H1N1
influenza prevention, treatment and behaviors in case of infection. Beneficiaries were
people at risk of contracting A/H1N1 influenza living in municipalities where the Project
was implemented. Respondents were selected among heads of household visiting health
facilities.

2.      While the sample is not statistically representative, it provides insights about the
effect of the communication strategy that was implemented. Key findings of the survey
include the following:
        • 95% of respondents could identify symptoms of influenza.
        • 93.3% could correctly identify ways of transmission of influenza A/H1N1.
        • 98.3% of respondents were familiar with ways to prevent Influenza infection.
        • 87% of respondents could identify correct behaviors in case of Influenza
            infection.

3.     Health professionals benefitted of the capacity strengthening activities, as
described under Annex 2 on Component 2.




                                             30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No Stakeholder Workshop was carried out for this Project.




                                          31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower submitted its Project Completion Report on November 21, 2012. The
report is in the Project files. The Borrower also submitted official comments on this ICR
on December 6, 2012. These comments include the conclusions and findings of the report.
The recommendations provided by the Borrower have been incorporated in the document.


Informal Translation of Borrower’s comments        (Email dated December 6, 2012)


Dear Dr. Gordillo,

After greeting you, I would like to send you on behalf of Ing. Collado, the comments
provided by the Ministry of Health on the Implementation Status and Results Report for
the Project H5300.

Sincerely,

Martha Regina Ríos




                                          32
33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Letter received on behalf of the PAHO Representative in Nicaragua, Dr. Prosperi:

Informal Translation of PAHO’s comments              (Email dated November 27, 2012)

With instructions from our NIC PAHO Representative Dr. Prosperi, I follow by
answering your questions:

1. What was the participation of PAHO during the H1N1 emergency?

PAHO / WHO has helped the country to face the H1N1 influenza pandemic long before
the pandemic was declared on April 25, 2009. Based on technical documents developed
by WHO on how to face a possible avian influenza pandemic, PAHO / WHO supported
the formulation, updating and implementation of action plans to the Ministry of Health
(at all levels) and provided support to institutions forming the countries’ intersectoral
Pandemic Influenza Preparedness Committee. PAHO/ WHO participated in the
implementation of simulation exercises to practice and improve intersectoral coordination
of Pandemic Influenza preparedness plans at the SILAIS and municipality level.

During the H1N1 influenza pandemic PAHO/ WHO supported the countries’ public
health response by forming and training emergency response teams in active community
participation and primary care provision; the PAHO/ WHO also supported the review and
adaptation of the National Pandemic Response.
In the ‘Immediate outbreak investigation and strengthening of epidemiological
surveillance’ component PAHO/ WHO supported rapid mobilization of equipment for
emergency response; provided direct technical assistance for outbreak investigation and
collection, management and analysis of data; immediate support to the Ministry of Health
with equipment and supplies for outbreak investigation and data processing; as well as
the implementation of containment measures at points of entry (airport, ports and border
crossings with Honduras and Costa Rica).

In the laboratory component, PAHO/ WHO supported the acquisition of materials,
reagents and other basic laboratory supplies for etiologic diagnosis of novel influenza A
(H1N1), rapid training in the application of the protocol for the detection of novel
influenza virus using RT-PCR; and facilitated the flow of information and samples from
national level to the Centers of Disease Control (CDC).

In the health care component, PAHO/ WHO supported the acquisition of selected
medical supplies and equipment, including personal protective equipment; training for
managers and staff in preparing health services for emergency response, training health
personnel in the treatment protocol "Management of patients with human influenza
A/H1N1"; identification of a triage" area in health facilities for patients with respiratory
symptoms; implementation of protective measures for health personnel (EPP and other
supplies , updated information, production of publicity materials).



                                            34
In the component of health promotion, communication and sensitization, PAHO/ WHO
supported the design, development, publication and dissemination of educational
materials on influenza A (H1N1) and seasonal flu, contacted the media to report on the
situation of the pandemic worldwide, improved procedures and the country's ability to
develop, update and disseminate messages about reducing risks related to influenza.

Finally, in the area of planning, coordination and logistics PAHO/ WHO supported the
implementation of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in the MOH; supported the
improvement of the COE of the PAHO country office; and the mobilization of the
GOARN team in the country.

2. Do you think the Bank project was relevant to address the situation in the country?

Although the World Bank Project began in the first quarter of 2010, it was relevant
because the amount of US $ 4.5 million that was implemented in collaboration with
PAHO/ WHO was used for purchasing medical supplies for the preparation and response
to a human pandemic (drugs, periodic replacement material, procurement of vaccines
through the revolving fund). This Project was relevant to address the country situation at
the time, particularly because it potentiated efforts to ensure health care for people, taking
into consideration the budget deficit faced by the MOH.


Sincerely,

Dr. Marquiño




                                             35
36
37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
  • Health System Strengthening and Response to Epidemiological Emergencies
      Project under the Global Program for Avian Influenza and Human Pandemic
      Preparedness and Response, Project Appraisal Document. November 24, 2009.
  • Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Nicaragua. August, 27, 2007.
  • Progress Report on the Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of
      Nicaragua. December 4, 2009.
  • Health Services Extension And Modernization Project (APL 2), Implementation
      Completion and Results Report (IDA-40500). December 29, 2010.
  • Project Implementation Status Reports (P112906), Sequence 1 - 5, World Bank,
      2009 – 2012.

Borrower Documents
   • Informe Final de proyecto Donación H5300-NI/P112906 “Fortalecimiento del
      Sistema de Salud y respuesta a las Emergencias Epidemiológicas? Versión
      preliminar. September, 28 2012.
   • Informe de auditoria técnica de la ejecución de las donaciones del banco mundial;
      H5300-NI/ P112906. August, 2012.

Other Documents
   • Country Report: Nicaragua, Economist Intelligence Unit, London
      (UK) .September, 2012.Country Profile: Nicaragua, Economist Intelligence Unit,
      London (UK), 2008.




                                         38
                                                                                        87°W                                            86°W                                                  85°W                                                   84°W                                                 83°W

               15°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cabo Gracias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a Dios
                                                                                                               HONDURAS                                                                                                           To Auasbila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Waspam                         Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Leimus

                                                      NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R E G I ÓW aw                                                                                               Cayos Miskitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                              A U T Ó N O M A aD E L                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pahara
                                                                                                                                                                                        Bocay                                                                                         Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AT L ? N T I C O




                                                                                                                                                                                                   la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K




                                                                                                                                                                                         ka
                                                                                                                                                                              y




                                                                                                                                                                                                el
                                                                                                                                                                    o                                                                                                                          Puerto Cabezas




                                                                                                                                                                         Boca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bonanza




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        uk
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ama
                                                                                                                                                              Co                                                                                                                                                                                 14°N




                                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Karata




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ala
                                                                             To Tegucigalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                          b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    La Rosita
                                                                                                                   Mogoton
                                                                                                                                 NUEVA                     JINOTEGA




                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                  (2,438 m)




                                                                                                                                                                                      Is
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Siuna                     Bamba
                                                                                                                                SEGOVIA                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kukalaya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
               EL S ALVAD OR                                                                                         Ocotal
                                                                                                                                        Quilalí      Wiwilí                       a                                                                                                     Wounta
                                                                                                                                                                             r                                                                                                          Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s t
                                          To San
                                                                                                      Somoto         MADRIZ                                        le
                                          Miguel
                                                                                                                                                                il                                             Prin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   za
                                                                                                                                                           rd
                                                                                                                                    San Sebastián                                                                     p   olk a                                                       Prinzapolka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C o a
                                                                                                                                    de Yali
                                                                                                             ESTEL?                                    o
                                                            Gulf of                                                                                C                                                                                 a
                                                           Fonseca                                                    Estelí                                                                                                      alp
                                                                                                 Somotillo                                 Jinotega         Turna                                                  Grande d    tag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e Ma     La Cruz de
               13°N                                         Potosi                                                                                                                                                                  Río Grande                                                                                                   13°N
                                        Punta Cosigüina                                                                         Matagalpa         MATAGALPA                           Rio Blanco
                                                                                                                   El Sauce
                                                                       CHINANDEGA
                                                                                                                                      Sébaco                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                              Muy Muy                                              Kurinw á            Nuevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Amanecer                                                            Caribbean
                                                                                                         LÉON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t o
                                                                     Chinandega
                                                                                                                                                                                                              íaREGIÓN                                                                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                              BOACO                                      Siqu
                  PACIFIC OCEAN                                           Corinto
                                                                                                      Léon           MANAGUA
                                                                                                                                                  Boaco
                                                                                                                                                                C                                            AUTÓNOMA DEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Perlas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M o s q u i
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ía
                                                                                                                    Lake                                          or                          Si q u
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                     Managua                                           d                                         AT L ? N T I C O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Laguna
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                          San Benito                     il                                           SUR                                                           de Perlas
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                    Puerto                                                                                  le                Mico                                  Esc
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any               Sandino     MANAGUA                                                                              ra                                  Rama               o nd i d o
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                 Juigalpa
                                                                                              12° N
                                                                                                                                  MASAYA                                                Lóvago                                                                              Bluefields                                                           12°N
                                                                                                                         Masaya               Granada
                                                                                                                                                                         CHONTALES                                                                                             Bluefields




                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                     Jinotepe                                                                                                                                                  Bay
                      N IC A R A G U A                                                                                                   GRANADA



                                                                                                                                                                                                         h
                                                                                                      Masachapa




                                                                                                                                                                                                             o
                                                                                                                   CARAZO                                     Lake                                                                Nueva




                                                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Guínea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          R?O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ta
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                             Nicaragua                                                                       Pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P un  aG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ntta Go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    orrd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       daa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      le
                                                                                                                                    R I VA S
                                                                                                                                                                   I. de Ometepe                          SAN
                                     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Punta Gorda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nn
                                                                                                                                          Rivas                                              San
                                                                                                                                                                                                         JUAN
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                         Miguelito
                                                                                                                                                              Peñas Blancas                                                                                               Punta
                                     RIVERS                                                                                   San Juan del Sur                                                                                                                            Gorda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Río In
                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Carlos                              d io               Bay
                                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   El Castillo de
                                                                                              11°N                                                                                                                                 La Concepcíon
                                     RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                          S                                       San Juan del Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           an                                                        0     20         40         60 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33456R
                                     MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBR 2012




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jua n

                                     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                           To San José
                                                                                                                                                                                 C O S TA R I C A                                                                                                    0    10     20        30     40    50 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                       86°W                                               85°W                                                       84°W                                                  83°W
