Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C  X i. /So-'8'
st N.. P-3899-PIM
REPORT ALD RECOMMENDATON
OF TRE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
IlTERNATToNAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 5.1 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BEAN
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC MANAGE1ENT
November 15, 1984
Western Africa Region
Thk d.e.inm  ha a resuiced dkisbu w a.d ml be usd by wepim. my in the pfewmmue of
their sEdmi dudt.. lfl    =tmy mt elberwbe be discimd  t w    Bss Widld  B  I



Currency Equivalents
(as of October 15, 1984)
Currency Unit       CPA Frauc (CFAF)
USSi.00            CPAP 435 1/
CPA? * zillion    USS2,298.8
ACRONYN
BCP      Bureau Central des Projets
CAJA      Caisse Autonaoe d'Amortissement
mCu       European Currency Uvit
EDP       Thropean Derelopnent Fund
FAC      Fknds d'hide et de Cooperation
IO        Ln-    ia Labor Organization
IhF      International Monetary Fund
INSAE    lnstitut National de la Statistique et de lAnalyse Economique
NE       Nlnistere des Finances et de 1'Economie
EPS       Iinistere du Plan et de la Statistique
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD    United Nations Departaent of Technical Cooperation and Development
UNYPA    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
I/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF1
to CFAF 50. The Freneh Franc is currently floatizg.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i; -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BMlFl
T3=ECICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC NANGENEIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of Benin
Nain Beneficiaries:    inistry of Plan land Statistics (WSP)
linistry of Finance and ECo3my (E)
National Institute of Statistics and Economic Analysis
(INSAE)
Caisse Aatonome d'Amortissement (CAA)
Amount:               SDR 5.1 million (USS5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms
Co-Financiers         United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
Earopean Development Fund (EDF)
United Nations Fund for Population Activities CUIFFA)
Project Description:  The proposed project aims at reinforcing the capacity of
the Government for planning and economic management.
This broad objective will be pursued by:
'i)  introducing improved procedures for programming,
budgeting, and monitoring of public sector investments;
(ii)  helping to improve the preparation and analysis of
investaent projects;
(iii)  organizing public finance into a more coherent
structure;
(iv)  strengthening Benin's institutions involved with the
collection and analysis of statistics; and
(v) providing training in project preparation and analysis,
business accounting, and providing fellowships for
advanced studies abroad in economics, public
administration and business administration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationo



-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~L 
_ i$ii-
Benefits and Risks:  Benefits would accrue to lenin over many years as the
advice and training provided lead to an increased
Government capaclty to: (i) prepare macroeconomic and
sector plans, sound projects, and realistic investeDt
prograos, (:i) properly mage public fiance including
the external debt, and (iii) improve the data and
information base. The risks are that (i) becamse of the
lii.ted muber of trained personnel in Benin, effective
counteroarts may prove difficult to find, ad (ii)
coordination problems anmd limited available country
information may reduce the effectiveness of the foreigzt
experts. Government is aware of these risks and special
arr  ag  eats have been made under the project (i) for
the selection of counterparts, in consultation 'ith IDfA,
prior to the arrival of the technical assistants, and
(ii) to ensure proper coordination of the various
project components and an adequate flow of information.



Estimated Costs
(exempt of taxes and duties)
_ass mi l lo 4 o
Local      Foreign   Total
Planning and Project Preparation                 0.3         1.4       1.7
Pmblic Finamce  anagemmt                         0.2         0.7       0.9
Statistics                                       0.2         0.6       0.8
Training                                         0.4         0.7       1.
Fellowships                                       -          0.4       0.4
Activities to be identified                      0.2         1.0       1.2
Equipment and Vehicles                            -          0.6       0.6
Operating Costs                                  0.4         0.4       0.8
Base Cost                                        1.7         5.8       7.5
Price and Physical Contingencies                 0.2         0.8       1.0
TOTAL Project Costs                  1.9         6.6       8.5
.-US DifliOn
Fi.ancing Plan                                  Local      Foreign   Total
IDA                                     0.9         4.1       5.0
UND?                                    0.3         1.4       1.7
PAC                                     0.2         0.5       0.7
EDF                                     0.2         0.4       0.6
?NFPA                                    -          0.2       0.2
Goveranent                              0.3          -        0.3
TOTAL                                1.9         6.6       8.5
Estimated Disbursements from the IDA credit (US$ million equivalent)
P3 1 1!8F   FMS  P!B  lD99  P1M 9  PFM
An=l                    0.5    1.1  1.1  0.9  0.6  0.4  04
CWAlatiM                0.5    1.6  2.7  3.6  4.2  4.6  5.0
11 Includes repayment of a PPF advance of $450,000.
Estimated Completion Date: June 1990
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff ApLraisal RePort: There is no separate appraisal report.
MZp: IBnD 18661



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATIOR   _
REPORT AND RECOFMEIDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIEECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMET CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE' S RFPUBLIC OF BENIN FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FROJECT FOR PLANNING AID ECONOMIC IARAGENENT
W     1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of auin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 5.1 million (US$5.0 million
cquivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Technical Assistance
Project for Planning and Economic Management. The project will be cofinanced
on a parallel basis by grants totalling USS3.2 million from United Nations
Development Program (JIDP), United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(UIPPA), the Republic of France acting through the Ponds d'Aide et de
Cooperation, and the European Development Fund (EDF).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 4686-BEN) was
circulated to the Executive Directors in April 1984. The paragraphs below are
based upon this report and other information that has since become avail-
able. Annex I provides basic country data.
Political Background
3.       After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized by
frequent changes in Government prevailed in Benin until the revolution in
1972, which brought to power the military Government of Lieutenant-Colonel
Kerekou. The country has since then enjoyed a comparatively long period of
political stability under a one-party system. Following the adoption of a new
constitution, President Kerekou was confirmed in 1980 as head of a Government
including many civilians.
Structure of the Economy
4.       Benin is a small, poor nation with a population of 3.5 million and an
estimated 1982 per capita GDP of US$280.  Agriculture, the most important
sector of the economy, employs three-fourths of the active population and
accounts for 40 percent of GDP and around half the foreign exchange
earnings. There is a small industrial sector consisting of a few import
substitution and agricultural processing plants. It contributed an estimated
11 percent to GDP in 1982. The tertiary sector is dominated by trade and
transit activities that link economic activity in Benin to conditions existing
in neighboring economies.
5.       The agricultural sector is predominantly fooderop oriented, producing
maize, sorghum, yams, cassava, beans and small quantities of rice. Benin, at
present, enjoy3 an overall food surplus; it is estimated that a-significant
portion of domestic fooderop output (perhaps as much as 20 percent) is
exported unofficially to Nigeria and Niger.  This offsets Benin's foodgrain
imports which hare been rising in recent years. The main export crops are



-2
palm oil, cotton and peanuts. Cotton, which is well-suited environmentally to
conditions in northern Benin, is rising in importance whil& oil palm in the
south is in relative decline because of insufficient rsinfall.
6.       The production of petroleum, cement and sugar which have significant
export potential began recently. For cement and sugar, however, major
marketing hurdles will need to be cleared to perdit export sales to take
place, particularly to Nigeria.
Recent Economic Develo]Ments
7.       Real GDP growth during 1978-1982 averaged about 5 percent per annum,
up substantially from the 0.7 percent annual average during the 1972-76
period. Grovth appears to have been strong in 1977, 1981 and 1982 when there
were sharp increases in construction, manufacturing, trade activity and public
administration. This growth was linked to the heavy public investment program
and to strong grovth in commercial activities due to the oil boom in Nigeria
and the uranium boom in Niger. Agriculture, on the other hand, consistently
grew at less than one percent per annum between 1970 and 1975, and then at an
average rate of 2 percent between 1976 and 1981. Agricultural performance
improved substantially in 1982 and 1983 with a sharp rise in cotton output
attributable to higher producer prices and the availability of modern inputs.
B.       During the mid-seventies, the Government expanded its presence in the
modern sector of the economy by nationalizing the maJor industrial enterprises
as well as extending its involvement in the agricultural sector. Under the
First Four-Year Development Plan (1977-1980), the Goverment went further by
investing in three large projects: Seme Petroleum, Sava Sugar and Onigbolo
Cement. This policy of greater Government involvement has determined the
course of the recent evolution of public finance, external debt, and external
balance.
9.       Until the late seventies, the Government maintained a conservative
public finance posture. Tight control over expenditures resulted in current
budget surpluses, which averaged 31 percent of revenues between 1977 and
1979. Nodest foreign borrowing financed the limited public investment
program. More recently, the public finance current 3urplus has weakened,
partially because of rising current expenditures, about three fourths of which
are wages and salaries. The other factor contributing to this decline is the
weakened revenue base. Over half of the revenues are derived from import
duties, of which a significant proportion is levied on imports re-exported
(officially or unofficially) to Nigeria dnd Niger. The post-1980 dowaturn in
economic activities in these neighboring countries has reduced demand and
limited ths inflow of dutial6e goods that transit through Benin.  In con-
sequence, the current budget went into deficit in 1983.
10.      Public enterprise financing also poses a problem for Government
finances. Two-thirds of the approximately 60 public enterprises in Benin are
in financial difficulties. Losses have been financed by the state-owned
banks, rather than through transfers from the budget. As many of these
advances cannot now be repaid, the Goverment, either as shareholder or as
banker, will have to cover these deficits. Public enterprise difficulties
have stemmed from poor initial project design, undercapitalization,
inexperienced business management, inadequate Government pricing and personnel



-3-
policies, and other inefficiencies.. In 1982, the Government announced a
series of measures to strengthen the public enterprises, including more
realistic pricing policies, better incentives for managers and workers,
tougher controls, and the liquidation of non-viable units. A program is now
being prepared (see para. 22) to support these decisions.
11.      In the external sector the growth of exports has been modest while
imports have grown rapidly, mainly because of capital imports associated with
the major public investments. In 1981, the resulting current account deficit
reached 23 percent of GDP as the investment ratio reached 30 percent of GDP.
The current account deficit rose to 28 percent of GDP in 1982 oving mainly to
further capital imports associated with an investment ratio of 35 percent.
Financing came mainly from external loans, principally supplier credits and
long-term official lending.
12.      External indebtedness and debt service obligations have therefore
grown rapidly. The stock of external debt disbursed and outstanding which was
US$193 million at end-i980 rose to US$600 iillion at end-1983.  Simultaneously
with this rapid growth of the debt stock, there occurred a relative hardening
of the average loan terms. As a result, scheduled debt service as a
percentage of exports rose from 5 percent in 1981 to 22 percent two years
later. Owing to the weakened revenue situation and the start-up problems of
the cement and sugar projects, all the debt service due in 1982 and 1983 were
not met. At end-1983, pa3ment arrears stood at about USS43 million.
Policy Changes and Future Prospects
13.      Confronted by may problems, the Government has begun to eliminate
economic distortions in order to improve the performance of the economy.
Starting with cotton, agricultural producer prices are being raised, and input
subsidies are being eliminated in a planned fashion. Najor reforms have been
decided in the pricing, personnel and management policies affecting public
enterprises, and some marginal enterprises have been closed. In addition, the
Government has decided that its direct involvement in productive actIvities
will be reduced and that private capital will be accorded a greater role in
the develoluent process. These policy changes, which are reflected in the
medium-term Developuent Plan (1983-1987) should lay the basis for more
vigorous growth in the longer term.
14.      Benin's growth performance over the mediu  term will be limited by
several constraints which make it unlikely .that GDP will grow by more than an
average of 3 to 4 percent per year during the 1982-90 period, even taking the
35e'me oil output into account. Key constraints include the slowdown in demand
in neighboring countries and the poor initial performance of the cement and
sgar projects.
15.      The public finanee situation is likely to remain difficult in the
years ahead due to the recurrent cost implications of recent major invest-
ments, the need to re-finance a number of public enterprises, and the external
debt problem. On the revenue side, the buoyancy in import duties over the
1979-81 period associated with goods re-exported to neighboring countries is
not likely to continue in the Iid-1980s. The exploitation of Same oil is not
expected to make even a modest contribution to fiscal resources until 1986.
1                     



- 4 -
16.      Benin's balance of payments is difficult to project because of the
large size of unrecorded exports. It is estimated, however, that the current
account deficit in relation to GDP will decrease during the rest of the
1950s. This results fr%.m expected exports of petroleum, and possibly cement
and sugar by 1986 and from a decline in the real value of capital imports from
the high levels of 1981-82, followirg completion of the cement and sugar
projects. As a result of a morp modest level of public investment, fewer
loans will be required in the near-term. Therefore debt service ratios should
begin to stabilize, although at a higher level than in the past. The ratio is
projected to remain at about the 25 percent level through 1990.
17.      Benin remains a very poor country with large needs for directly pro-
ductive investment and supporting infrastructure. Its increased debt burden
due to heavy foreign borrowing in support of public investments will constrain
future access to commercial loans. The Government has recognized the need to
mobilize increased concessionary financing from bilateral and multilateral
sources, as reflected in the Donors' Roundtable Conference convened in March
1983. In view of Benin's poverty and the inability of public savings to
finance more than 5-10 percent of the future public investment program, the
country will continue to need foreign financing on concessionary terms.
Foreign donors should provide a large share of total project costs, including,
if possible, the financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
18.      Since the Bank group started lending to Benin in 1969, Benin has
received twenty-two IDA credits, two supplementary IDA credits, and two
Special Fund credits, totalling US$224 million. Six of the credits were for
agriculture, seven for road construction and maintenance, two for education,
three for energy, and one each for port expansion, urban water supply,
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises, and forestry. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank group operations in Benin as of
September 30, 1984.
19.      In the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was limited and
based on a case-by-case approach to lending operations. More recently,
however, the policy and lending dialogue has intensified and Government has
displayed considerable interest in and responsiveness to Bank advice and
policy assistance. The Country Economic Memorandum (Report 4686-BEN),
released in March 1984 and discussed with the Government in December 1983, was
utilized as a vehicle to broaden this dialogue substantially. The report
emphasizes the importance of comparative advantage considerations in the
choice of development activities and identifies policy issues at the aggregate
and sector levels which need to be resolved to strengthen output performance.
20.      A large proportion of Bank assistance to Benin's development so far
has been in the agricultural sector. IDA's earlier operations in this sector
met with mixed success and, in fact, during the execution of an IDA-FAC
-Zou-Borgou credit for cotton development made in 1972, cotton production
actually fell. In 1977, a technical assistance credit was approved to help
the Government better prepare rural development projects. The assistance
provided by this credit was instrumental in preparing the Bhrgou, Zou and



-5-
Atacora provincial rural development projects. Under the Borgou project, for
which a US$17 million IDA credit was approved in April 1981,'ficotton production
in the Borgou province doubled in the 1982-83 season and sharply increased
again in the 1983-1984 campaign. The Zou Project (FY83 IDA US$20 million) is
noteworthy for the fact that it includes financing of fertilizer imports on a
declining scale as a response to the Government decision to phase out ferti-
lizer subsidies and reduce pestieide subsidies. The rural development project
in Atacora Province,, appraised by the Bank, was financed by a US$6 million
credit from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (hFAD) and a
US$4 million loan from the OPEC Fund for Interntional Development.
21.      In the transport sector, Bank involvement began with a Land Transport
Study which led to the financing of a four-year Highway Maintenance Project in
i969-70. Since then, the Bank group has financed three highway projects,
three feeder roads projects and a port extension project. In general, these
projects were satisfactorily completed with actual economic rates of return
comparing favorably with appraisal estimates. In the case of the Third
Highway Project however, the project completion report notes that institu-
tional development objectives were only partially met. The Third Feeder Roads
Project, approved on May 29, 1984, puts emphasis on strengthening the planning
and monitoring capability of the Ministry of Civil Works through the provision
of technical assistance experts, the establishment of a road maintenance
section, and training for Beninese staff.
22.      Following the Government's decision in 1982 to proceed with the
reform of public enterprises, it requested Bank group support in the public
enterprise sector. Discussions in progress are expected to lead to agreement
on specific policies for this sector. An IDA credit to finance detailed
studies needed to prepare individual enterprise rehabilitation programs, and
to finance the execution of these programs is under preparation.  In the
energy sector, the Seme Oilfield Phase II Development Project was approved
June 19, 1984 and the Nangbeto Hydroelectric Project on June 28, 1984. Other
assistance to Benin is expected to continue in the transport, education, urban
and energy sectors.
23.      Benin's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory, and the Government is quite familiar
with the Bank's procuiement and disbursement procedures. Delays are sometimes
encountered, hovever, because of the Government inability to make timely
contributions of counterpart funds, a problem which has been exacerbated by
the difficult budgetary situation.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
24.      The stringent economic and financial situation in Benin in recent
years has made apparent, not least to the Government itself, the shortcomings
in the economic management of the country. These arise largely from weak-
nesses in project preparation, macroeconomic planning (policy analysis, and
investment programming) and public finance management (budgeting, budget
execution and debt management). The poor data and information base and the
limited number of capable national staff available to undertake the various
tasks are major constraints to Goverment efforts in improving economic
management.



-6-
Weaknesses in Economic Management
25.      Macroeconomic Planning.  Three sections of the Minlstry of Planning
and Statistics (MPS) have institutional responsibility for the planning,
appraisal and selection, programming and monitoring of investment projects.
These units are the Direction des Studes et Synthese (DES), the Bureau Central
des Projets (BCP), and the Direqtion de la Programmation et de l'Azuenagement
du Territoire (DPAT). The DES is responsible for conducting policy-oriented
studies of the economy as a whole, and for drawing up development plans.  The
DPAT is responsible for the programming of investments, the environmental
concerns of development and the issue of regional balance during the growth
process. It recently became involved in monitoring the execution of projects.
26.      At the present time, severe deficiencies exist in the investment
programming process. The DPAT is in charge of producing each year's tranche
of the development plan for inclusion in the budget, taking into account the
financial feasibility of the total package, given foreign and domestic
financing available, the availability of domestic counterpart funding where
required by externally-financed projects, and the budgetary consequences of
resulting recurrent expenditures. This important function is not being
adequately performed at this time. As a result, the implementation of
externally funded projects has occasionaly been interrupted by lack of
counterpart funds. Furthermore, there is a general continuing problem of poor
maintenance of infrastructure and periodic shortage of supplies, both due to
the underfunding of recurrent expenditures. This situation arises largely
from poor investment programming that does not pay adequate attention to the
financing framework of each year's investment budget and to the explicit
allocation of recurrent cost needs. The recent performance of the DPAT in the
area of project follow-up has, however, been satisfactory. The project will
provide the services of a consultant to improve the investment programming
process as described in para. 47.
27.      Project Preparation and Selection.  The BCP was created in 1976 to
prepare, analyze and review projects to be included in the investment
program. While the BCP should play a key role in the NPS, it has been largely
ineffective. One of BCP's problems is that it has responsibility for a
multiplicity of tasks (identifying projects, conducting feasibility studies,
appraising projects, drawing up project documents, seeking financing for
projects and monitoring inwestments), some of which conflict (such as
identifying, preparing and screening projects within the same unit). The BCP
does not have the range of skills needed to fulfill all these tasks. As a
result of attempting to do too much, the BCP often fails in its key tasks of
screening projects and many projects that should have been rejected on
efficie4cy grounds, or should have been redesigned to improve their quality,
have been retained in the investment program as initially proposed.
28.      In light of the above, the Government has decided to proceed with a
reform of the BCP and clarify its relations with the planning units of
individual technical ministries, the Directions den Etudes et de la
Planification (DEPs). The role of the DEPs in the areas of project
identification, preparation and promotion will be emphasized. The DEPs will
be expected to identify and prepare projects including studies of economic
justification, In the BCP, emphasis will be placed on critical evaluation of
project proposals, particularly the screening of projects submitted for



-7-
inclusion in the investment program. Part of the BCP's present staff will be
reassigned to the DEPs where project formulation and prepafttion will take
place. After it has been reorganized, the BCP will also provide advice to the
T'RPs on methodological matters. The proposed project will support
Government's decision to reform the BOP as described in paras. 48 and 49.
29.      Public Finance Management.  The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE)
organizes the management of public finance through four divisions: the Budget
Office (DB), the Money and Banking Office (DAMB), the Debt Nanagement Office
(CAA) and the Treasury. The DB draws up the current budget, the DANB is res-
ponsible for supervising banking and monetary affairs, the CAA is in charge of
debt management which encompasses the management of loan funds from the tims
they are contracted through the time they are repaid, and the Treasury serves
as the depository for current revenues and makes payment on current expendi-
tures. A budgetary commission chaired by the Minister of Planning and Statistics is
responsible for final presentation of the budget to the National Assembly.
30.      Public finance management is constrained by poor organization of the
budgetary framework and inability to keep current data on operations. One of
the weaknesses in the structure of the budget is that only operating receipts
and expenditures are recorded according to a proper administrative
classification. Expenditures on supplies and on investment program
expenditures are not systematically classified. The lack of nomenclature for
the investment budget leads the Treasury to put all investment expenditures
into a suspense account which makes it difficult to monitor the execution of
the investment program. As the budget is executed, movements in public
finances cannot be easily monitored and there is no warning system for
financial stress situations.
31.      Information on the public sector's debt and contingent liabilities
arising from debts guaranteed by Government is incomplete. The accounts of
the CAA on even the portion of debt it has in its ledgers are not up to
date. The CAA has not published its accounts since 1979 and cannot provide a
comprehensive picture of public debt, especially for the debt contracted by
state enterprises and guaranteed by the Government. Debt service projections
are not reliable when they are made. The recent growth in external indebted-
ness of the public sector on account of parastatal projects has increased the
need for a comprehensive debt data base, improved debt accounting procedures
and, generally, better debt management capability. At the Government's
request, the Bank recently seconded an external debt specialist to the CAA to
assist in reorganizing the management of external debt information. Vith an
improved information base and better accounts, the CAA will be able to more
actively manage the debt portfolio as opposed to its present passive posture.
Local Constraints
32.      Statistics.  The weakness of the statistical base makes it difficult
to assess the performance of various sectors and the economy as a whole and
represents a major constraint to economic management. Benin's official
statistical agency is the Institut National de la Statistique et de l'Analyse
Economique (INSAB), which is organizationally a part of IPS. The INSAE
collects, analyses and publishes official data. Though the institute has a
small group of dedicated staff, it does not, at present, possess the technical
capacity to produce up-to-date statistics covering the main macroeconomic and
sectoral aggregates.



- - ~ ~   ~     ~     ~      ~     8
33.      National acomunts statistics are prepared with a two-year delay,
usig periodic assistae from the United NWations Econocic Coamission for
Africa. Public finance statistics (including external debt daa.) and
statistics on external trade are out-of-date and of uncertain quality. In
other important sectors coverage is only partial: in the agricultural sector,
far9gate and market prices of crops are not well documented, and in the
industrial sector, output, salestand financial statistics are deficient.
34.      The effect of unreliable statistics may be illustrated by the example
O.- growth rate estimates that often have to be revised markedly when the base
data, are changed. ihereas initial base data led to the estimation of the
average growth rate of Beninm during the period 1972-76 at 3 percent, it was
later realized, on the basis of revised base data, that growth during the
period was really no higher than 0.7 percent. Another area where poor
statistics constrain Benin7s ecomic management is in the public enterprises
sector. The paucity of data on public enterprises (production, profitability,
indebtedness) have made it diffieult to have continuing assessment of the
performnce of public enterprises, and to take the necessary steps to improve
their onerations.
35.      Staff Adequacy and Training.  Although in the past Benin had a
reputation for having a large number of highly-educated and well-trained civil
servants, it is currently handicapped by the fact that a large number of qua-
lified Beninese are living abroad. This has created shortages of experienced
manpower, especially at the middle and higher levels of Government. Noreover,
the limited number of experienced high level civil servants who are in Benin
find it very difficult, in addition to fulfilling their day-to-day operations,
to accomplish two major tasks on which emphasis should be placed: (a)
preparing, implementing and monitoring institutional and policy reforms and
(b) training and coaching more junior staff.
36.      An illustration of the difficulties encountered by Government in
implementing reforms which are poorly prepared is the attempted establishment
of the Caisse Centrale de Financement (CPF) within the Ministry of Finance,
now NFE. In 1980, the CPF was proclaimed by law, merging the CAA, DANE, and
the Treasury in an effort to eliminate the overlapping responsibilities of
these agencies. However, the CFT never became operational, and many officials
acknowledge that such a major institutional reform would have required more
thorough preparation.
37.      Formal undergraduate training in economics and statistics and related
disciplines in Blenin is offered at the University of lenin; however, the
curricula in these areas are weak. Wany students follow courses in law and
the numbers of graduates with skills crucial in economic management-the
* project cycle, macroeconomic analysis, finance, statistics, and accounting-
remain lower than the levels needed. The University of Benin does not offer
training in these fields beyond the first-degree level and Government's
fellowships for studies abroad are limited.
The Need for Coordinated TA in Nacroeconomic Management
38.      Past and Ongoing Bank Technical Assistance in Benin. It the past,
technical assistance provided to Benin by the Bank has been limited to tech-
nical ministries and operational positions associated vith the iVplementation



-9-
of specMic projects (Zou and Borgou Rural Developtent Projects; Technical
Assistance Petroleum Sector Project; Industrial Development a oject; Feeder
Roads and Highway Projects). Recently, however, the Government bas shown
interest in expanding technical assistance from the Bank Group to the area of
economic manage ent. As noted above (para. 31) the Bank seconded a staff
member to fill the position of external debt advisor starting in Jovember
1983. He is currently laying the foundations for the assembly of the debt
data and the maintenance of a comprehensive debt data base.
39.      Other Past and On-going Technical Assistance. So far, five agencies
hav provided technical assistance to Benin in the areas of macroeconomic-
_    It, project preparation and statistics.  The 1JDP has provided two
technical assistants to the IPS for the past three years. One advisor, a
acroeconomist, participated in the drafting of the 1983-1987 Development Plan
and left Cotonou in larch 1984 for another          t. The other advisor, an
investaent progralMer, has introduced some improved procedures for the
monitoring of publie invesbients.
40.      The Fonds dWAide et de Cboperation (FkC) and the Emropean Development
Fund (EDP) have financed the services of advisors to the BCP at different
times and for various durations ranging from 6 months to 2 years (engineers,
economists, finwacial analysts). Their work baa included project preparation
and monitoring of projects under execution. However, the weaknesses of the
BCP (see para. 27) have not allowed Benin to benefit fully from the presence
of these advisors. In agreement with the Governmeat, PAC and EDP decided
during the appraisal in December 1983 to end their assistance to the BCP. In
the future, any assistance from FkC and EDF in the area of project
preparation, promotion, and supervision will be provided to the technical
ministries.
41.      The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UDPPA) assisted
INSAB in launching a population census in 197g. The project gath^red useful
demographic infomation, but the data collected then and those from another
surver in 1983 still need to be analyzed, the results published, and
disseminated. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) has
provided periodic short-term assistance for the preparation of national
accounts. Longer-term assistance is needed, however, to upgrade procedures
and to train Beninese staff in the skills necessary to take over
responsibility for this task.
42.      The Present Need for Technical Assistance. Past and on-going
technical assistance programs have not alwars been tailored to the nature and
scope of Benin.Ls major weaknesses in economic management. For instance, there
is a clear need for assistance in the area of public finance management which
has not been addressed. To help the Goverment to develop its economic
management tools and formulate reforms in a coherent manner, a more coordi-
nated approach is necessary for the delivery of technical assistance in
Benin. Another shortcoming of certain previous technical assistance programs
has been Government's failure to provide adequate counuterparts or donors'
failure to ensure that foreign experts actually work with thep4r designated
counterparts and interact generally with a good number of local officials in
their assigned institutions. The proposed project is the first broad-based
technical assistance operation supported by IDA in Benin. In addition to
providing financing not available from ovher sources at the present time,



- 10 -
IDA's role in the project will be to help Benin achieve a more effective
approach toward efficient economic management.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Bckground
43.      The proposed technical assistance project was first identified with
the Government during a Bank economic mission in June 1982 and assistance was
formally requested by the Government in Ray 1983. The project was appraised
by an IDA mission in December 1983 which was joined by representatives of UIDP
and PAC. A Project Preparation facility of USS450,000 was approved in July,
1984 to permit preparation of training programs and early launching of the
assistance to the debt management office.  A credit and project summary is
provided at the beginning of the report. Annex III contains supplemmetary
project data and Annex x gives the list of main documents available in the
project file. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Negotitionsa were
held in Washington from October 17 to 19, 1984. The Beninese delegation was
led by H.E. Mr. Zul-Kifl Salami, Minister of Planning and Statistics.
Project Objectives and Summary
44.      The overall objective of the proposed technical assistance project is
to reinforce progressively Government's cap'city to manage the economy effec-
tively. Specifically, the project wiLl attempt to strenothen Benin'a institu-
tions in project preparation and macroeconomic planning (policy analysis and
investment programming), in public finance management, statistics, and
management training. The project will also (i) improve the organization of
the BCP, a key directorate of the 1PS, and (ii) facilitate tie planning and
implementation of organizational changes which may be undertaken in the NFE
following the diagnoses to be made under the project. The development of
these objectives, which are crucial to proper economic management in Benin and
to IDA's future operations in that country, and the need for coordination with
the other major aid agencies providing technical assistance to the Government,
call for a key role to be played by IDA in meeting Benin' s technical
assistance needs.
45.      Technical assistance will be provided to key ministries for periods
ranging from a few weeks of short-term coaching to long-term assistance.
Resident technical assistants will not be line managers but will perform as
advisors. Table I below shows the duration and sources of finance for the
major technical assistance positions.  Ir addition to these, the project
provides for the fir'ancing of trainin7 o&r -tie3 and for fellowahips.
Annex IV contains a matrix showing pr ',e. objectives, inputs, duration of
assignments, and expected results.
Table I - Summary of Technical Assistance to be Provided
(in staff months by component)
So=uce/FiMn9zg Comp t   IDA~ UhF   PlC   FJF   GMA  GOVT   TL
Plaulmingand PLoject Prp.    78B   60  -    -
Pablic  mwe       ent    45    -   18       -         -         63
St atsies                -      36  36    24    18       -     114
IDEIAL                   123 --59  54    24    18        -     315
_   _



- 11 -
To ensure that the work of the tec.bnical assistance advisors has a lasting and
tangible impact, and in view of the importance attached to *raining (see
paras. 60-64 below): (i) the Government will designate a number of Beninese
staff as counterparts to each resident technical assistant, in addition to his
main advisee (see Annex V), and (ii) the ability to train local counterparts
will be one of the selection criteria in the recruitment of consultants. The
total cost of the project is ss*imated at USS8.5 million of which $5.0 million
would be financed by IDA, $1.7 million by the UNDP, $0.7 million by the FAC,
$0.6 million by the EDF, $0.2 million by th.e UNFPA, and $0.3 million by the
Government. A condition of credit effectiveness will be that the conditions
for the disbursement under each of the DIDP, UNFPA, and PAC grants Shall have
been fulfilled (Section 6.01 (b) of the Draft DCA).
B
Project Components
A. iacroeconomic Planning and Project Preparation
46.      Economic AnalYsis and Investment Programming.  In the MPS, a
macroeconomic advisor financed by UND? (with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA) will work with a team of nationals headed by the Director
of DES. He will lead work on policy-oriented macroeconomic studies, advise on
technical matters relating to the formulation of national development
strategies and the preparation of national development plans. He wi'l also
assist in the monitoring of economic developments. The latter is expected to
lead to the regular quarterly production of studies of -the current economic
situation (Note de Conjoncture).
47.      An investment programmer will be finaced (initially for two years
with the possibility of extension from contingencies) by the UNDP (with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA) to work in the DPAT, advising
the Director of DPAT and the four programming section chiefs. The work of the
investment programer will be to reinforce the concept of keeping public
sector investment plans in line with national priorities and existing budget
constraints. At budgeting time he will ensure that the investment budget is a
part of a financial program that is feasible and that also provides for
recurrrent and counterpart funds. Between budgets, he will concentrate on
follow-up of project execution. His programming work will go part-way towards
addressing the issue of the operation and maintenance of existing investments
by integrating into the budgeting exercise the practice of explicitly
allocating the needed resources. The proposed advisor will follow up and
expand on the work of the UNDP-financed expert mentioned in para. 39 and whose
c-~ntract will expire in December 1984.
48.      Project Appraisal. It was agreed with the Government that implemen-
tation of the proposed reform of the BCP was a necessary condition for techni-
c~al assistance in the field of project appraisal. The reorganization will
streamline BCP's functions, emphasizing its screening role as a project
appraisal unit; and since it will no longer be responsible for conducting
feasibility studies and appraising projects, it wilr reduce the number of its
staff. Understandings on the BCP reorganization, including its new functions
and or8uaizational chart, were reached during negotiations. All necessary
action required to reorganize the BCP accordingly will have to be taken as a
condition of disbursement for the services of the project analyst described in
para. 49 below (Schedule 1, para. 3(b) to the draft DCA).



- 12 -
49.      To support the Government's decision to reform the BCP and to make it
more effective, an expatriate project analyst will be recruited under the
proposed project (IDA financing) for two years. He will work closely with the
director of the BCP and will take advantage of teaching materials developed by
EDI on project analysis to help the BCP build up a reference library during
the project period.
50.      Project Preparation.  Project formulation and preparation will now
take place in the DEPs of the technical ministries. In order to strengthen
their capabilities, staff released through the restructuring of the BCP will
be reassigned in the DEPs of these ministries. The DEPs will have continuous
access to the advice of the expert on project preparation and analysis
recruited for the BCP.
51.      Given the present and future importance of industrial and agro-
industrial projects in the economy, the services of an advisor on industrial
projects will be provided for two years (IDA financing) to the Industry
Directorate (DI) of the MFE. The adviso: will help the DI to increase its
capacity to (i) prepare and promote sound industrial projec;s, (ii) supervise
and advise existing industrial companies especially public enterprises, and
(iii) carry out studies leading to the formulation of coherent strategies for
industrial subsectors. This assistance is required given (a) the limited
experience of the DI's staff and the major responsibilities entrusted to this
directorate, and (b) the poor performance of public enterprises and the large
projects completed over the last few years (Onigbolo cement, Save sugar). The
advisor will work closely with the chiefs of service of the DI who will assume
the leading role after the term of the expatriate advisor.
52.      Livestock is another sector for which the Government has requested
IDA assistance to help develop a coherent strategy and coordinate foreign
aid. Initially, consultants (totalling 11 staff months) will be recruited
under the propo3ed project (IDA financing) to assist the Ministry of Raral
Development and Cooperatives in conducting a livestock sector review. This
revie-w will help the Government to develop a strategy for the sector.
Following the sector review, a livestock advisor will be recruited for 19
months under IDA financing to strengthen the livestock directorate and help
prepare a project which will be a coordinated follow-up operation to livestock
activities presstly supported by the EDF, the Netherlands and France.
53.      During project implementation, it is expected that short-term
assistanc.e will be needed to conduct sector reviews and formulate projects
that have not yet been fully specified (see para. 66 below). Such assistance,
which will be financed under the "activities to be identified' category, would
primarily benefit the technical ministries to the extent that funds cannot be
used under other IDA finanwced projects in specific sectors.
B. Public Finance Nanagement
54.      The assistance foreseen in the area of public finance management will
consist of short and medium-term expertise to assist in: (i) improving the
structure of the budget and strengthening the Treasury Department; (ii)
creating the capacity to monitor and manage the public debt; and (iii)
improving the data collection process for public finance statistics.



- 13 -
55.      The proposed Credit will finance the services of consultants to help
the Budget and Treasury departments introduce systematic buZMetary nomencla-
ture for the operating and investment budgets so that they are compatible with
IMF nomenclature. The use of nev nomenclature in budgeting will allow for
proper budget execution and expenditure control. A public finance system
specialist will be recruii3d for a period of twelve months divided into four
periods to allow proper follow-up after the initial design of a new budget
framework. In addition, an accountant and a systems specialist (recruited for
a total of nine months under FAC financing) will help adapt the Treasury' s
accounting system to the new budget nomenclature and supervise the
computerization of the Treasury's operations. One computer will be purchased
under IDA financing for the use of the Treasury Department.
56.      Two short-term consultants will be attached to the CkM of the
Ministry of Finance (IDA financing). The first, an accountant will help the
CAk adapt its accounting system to conform with the National Accounting Plan
and generally improve accounting procedurps. The second, a computer special-
ist, will assist the CAA in computerizing its external debt statistics and
accounting system. This will supplement the efforts of the debt specialist
seconded by the Bnek to improve the CAIA's debt-management capacity. in
particular its knozledge of debt stock, its evolution through time, and
projections of debt service obligations. For the storage and treatment of
data and for accounting operations, one computer will be purchased for the use
of the CAk. Hardware selection will be upon the advice of the system experts
and maintenance arrangements will be established with the suppliers" represen-
tatives in the regt.on.
57.      An economic statistician specialized in public finance and acting as
an advisor will be recruited (18 staff-months, IDA financing) to assist the
Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (DE?) of the IFE to establish
procedures for prompt data collection on revenue, expenlIture, and public debt
so that a consolidated picture of Benin's financial situation could be
obtained and kept up to date. One of the outcomes of this exercise will be
the establishment of monthly economic indicators. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it will assign two public finance statisticias to
work full time with the advisor (Section 3.03(b)) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The advisor and the local team will be expected to begin
their work by doing a joint diagnosis of procedures for producing the required
statistics. Other short term prcgraws will be financed by FAC in the area of
customs collection.
C. Statistics
58.      Statistics are notably weak in Benin (see paras. 32-34). To help
remedy the situation the major areas discussed below will be assisted under
the project. This assistance, which has been designed to correspond with
absorbtive capacity and staff resources of INSAE, will be directed towards ii-
provirg the quality of statistics to facilitate the.management of the economy.
59.      A statistician will be recruited under UNDP financing for two years
to strengthen the capacity of the INSAB to compile national accounts. He will
help to improve the collection and analysis of data for national accounts, and
will be complemented by short-term consultants, also financed by the UNDP in
the areas of external trade, prices and public finance statistics. Two



-14 -
statisticians, under financing from FAC and EDP, will assist INSAB in
conducting a household budget and expenditure survey, as well as publishing
the results. A demographer will be recruited for 18 months (IDA and UNFPA
financing) to analyze the 1979 population census and the 1983 survey and to
publish the results.
- D. Training
60.      In addition to the streamlining of responsibilities of selected
Government agencies and the introduction of improved procedures, the project
will include training activities which are an integrated part of a strategy
for long lasting institutional strengthening. While substantial work haa been
done to assess the training needs in techbncal fields under the two IDA
financed Education Projects and vith the assistance of UNESCO and 1o1, the
training needs in key ministries and agencies are yet to be properly
assessed. Consequently the assistance foreseen in the area of training will
include the provision of the services of a resident training advisor and the
preparation of an in-service training program in the priority area of project
analysis, preparation, and supervision. The project will also include a
training program in business accounting and the training of a limited number
of tax auditors.
61.      The proposed Credit will finance the services of a training advisor
attached to the project coordinator's office for 18 months (Section 5.01 (b)
of the Draft DCA). He will, at project inception, be responsible for
assessing the training needs of all agencies involved in the project and
helping each technical assistant design on-the-job training programs and
identify formal training opportunities for national staff. During project
implementation, he will coordinate training activities under the project and
monitor their execution. The Government will forward to IDA a list of
candidates to be considered as counterparts for each technical assistant, in
addition to the main advisee. During negotiations it confirmed its agrseemet
that those counterparts with whom the technical assistants will be associated,
will be selected before the arrival of technical assistants and that an
adequate number of secretaries and other support staff will be assigned
(Section 3.03 (a) of the Draft DCA).
62.      The strong need for training in project analysis, preparation, and
supervision was confirmed during the appraisal mission, which included a
representative from EDI. The mission discussed with the Government the major
focus and the target group of such a training program. It will be an in-
service program for medium- and high-level staff from various ministries,
government agencies, and state enterprises. It will cover all stages of the
project cycle, placing emphasis on calculation of financial and economic rates
of return, determination of recurrent costs and debt-service implications, and
methods of proper project supervision. The training program will be designed
and implemented by consultanta who will largely utilize training materials
from the EDI and in coordination with activities being carried out in the BCP
and the DEPs. US$300,000 will be made available under the proposed Credit to
prepare and implement the program.
63.      The business accounting program will be a continuation of an rLO-
assisted program initiated in 1982 to implement the system of standardized
enterprise accounting introduced by the Government in 1981. ILO assistance



- 15 -
will end in December 1984. IDA will finance the continuation of the program
for three years. The participants will come from both public and private
companies in Benin. The program will be improved in three respects: (a) clear
distinction will be made in the curriculum between three levels of qualifi-
cations in the field of accounting: certified accountants, accountants, and
junior accountants; (b) the program will be designed to ensure effective
follow-up of the participants in their enterprises to help them apply proper
accounting procedures; and (c) although ILO will continue to assist in the
management of the program, local and foreign consultants will be utilized to a
greater extent to complement the expertise made available by the 'Centre
National de Formation Comptable" (CEIAFOC) at Cotonou and the ILO.
ILO/CEKAFOC has prepared a work program for the proposed training program
which was discussed during negotiations and is being finalized.
64.      Under PAC financing, a short-term consdatant will train about ten
Beninese professionals of the Taxation Directorate of the MFE in the area of
enterprise tax auditing. This training program will a&i at establishing two
tax auditing brigades of about five membeis each, to strengthen Government's
ability to collect corporate taxes.
E. Fellowships
65.      Because of the acute shortage of trained economists, and public and
private administration specialists in Benin, the proposed Credit will finmmce
fellowships (US$300,000) for graduate studies in these fields. The fellow-
ships will offer twelve student-years of graduate education abroad, since no
graduate-level training programs are offered in Benin and bilateral funds for
these purposes have d'olined in recent years. The fellowsbips will serve to
broaden knowledge and develop expertise of professionals who have graduated
from the university and have demonstrated strong potential in their work per-
formance over at least a three-year period. Participants will be selected for
their potential contribution to the formulation of economic policy. Before
awarding any fellowships, the Government will furnish to the Association for
its approval the dossier of the candidates for fellowships (Section 3.06 (a)
of the draft DCA). The Government will undertake to employ them upon the
successful completion of their studies and will require then to stay on for at
least three years (Section 3.06 (b) of the draft DCA). The fellowship program
will be managed by the Directorate of Technical Cooperation in the lPS and
will be reviewed every six months by the Association.
F. Activities to be Identified
66.      About 15 per cent of the proposed Credit will be reserved at the
outset to finance activities subsequently to be identified in the above
components or which otherwise serwe the overall project objectives of
strengthening macroeconomic management and preparing sound projects.
Programming of such funds will be administered by the Project Coordinator (see
para. 68) in consultation with and subject to the approval of the Association
(Section 3.07 of the draft DCA).
67.      Technical assistance, studies, training activities and equiplext to
be financed under the "Activities to be identified' category can be determined
precisely only during project implementation. However, funds are likely to be
used for inter alia (i) policy-oriented macro-economic studies in the 1MPS;



- 16 -
(ii) sector reviews and feasibility studies (technical ministries mentioned in
para. 52); (iii) follow-up actions which will be necessary-for the MFE; and
(iv) technical assistance which will be necessary for certain aspects of a
financial stabilization program foreseeable in the next two years.
Project Organization and Implementation
68.      Project Kanagement Structure.  Overall formal responsibility for
project management and liaison with the Association will rest with the
Director of Technical Cooperation (DCT) of the MPS who has been appointed
Project Coordinator. The DCT will head a project unit comprising a senior
officer (who will perform the day-to-day functions), an accountant, and a
secretary. Under the direction of the Project Coordinator, Beninese Chiefs of
Operations will be respectively responsible for the implementation of each of
the main components: planning, public finance management, debt management and
statistics, within the beneficiary agency concerned. In the case of training
which is a service to all project components the DCT will retain overall
supervisory responsibility. Each Chief 6f Operations will organize andi direct
the work of consultants and their Beninese counterparts and will prepare
progress reports for the activities falling under his responsibility, at half-
yearly intervals.
69.      To assist in the recruitment of technical specialists and to facili-
tate proper project implementation, the Government has decided with the
concurrence of IDA to engage two outside agencies whose services will be
financed out of the proposed Credit. It has requested that a United Nations
agency-the Department of Technical Cooperation and Development (UNDTCD)--be
engaged to help implement the project components which will be executed by the
Government under a cost sharing arrangement with the UNDP and the UNFPA (see
Annex X). This choice is based on previous technical assistance which the
UNDTCD has helped implement in the areas of planning and statistics in
Benin. The Government is discussing a service contract with the UNDTCD which
will specify the administrative and supervision services which the UNDTCD will
undertake, and a detailed budget stating the costs of consultants services and
DTCD's administrative costs. The agreement will be submitted to IDA for
approval before signature. The second outside agency (or consultancy firm) to
be engaged by the Government will assist in the implementation of the public
finance component of the project by helping in the hiring of consultants and
the monitoring of their work. The firm will be selected by the Government
according to Bank guidelines (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft DCA).
70.      Aid Coordination and Donors' Supervision.  The Government and the
donor agencies have agreed to exchange and discuss the terms of reference of
all majo.r technical assistance positions, regardless of the source of finan-
cing for each of these positions. IDA and each cofinancier concerned will
discuss and agree on the suitability of the qualifications and experience of
each expert. During negotiations the Government confirmed its agreement on
the terms of reference for the major technical assistance positions listed in
Annex VI. Any changes to the terms of reference agreed during negotiations
will have to be cleared with IDA (Section 3.02 (d) of the draft DCA).
71.      IDA and co-financiers will receive copies of the supervision reports
made by the agencies assisting with project execution for their respective
project components. Joint supervision missions will be arranged among the co-



- 17 -
financing agencies, with IDA as the lead agency. All future initiatives
related to technical assistance for macroeconomic management'-ill be discussed
with the other donors before being finalized.
72.      In addition to the contribution to project implementation expected
from outside agencies such as UNDTCD, IDA will devote the requisite amount of
staff resources to ensure adequate project supervision. At the initial stage,
Bank staff will monitor the finalization of contracts with outside agencies
and the recruitment of experts. After the launching of the project there will
be intensive supervision aimed at ensuring that the experts actually work-with
their designated counterparts and that the appropriate steps are taken to
achieve the expected results indicated in Annex IV. Upon completion of each
component, the Government and IDA w4ll determine the appropriate follow-up
which should be given to the technical assistance program concerned.
73.      ProJect Implementation. The project will be implemented over a five-
year period, excluding sisx months of activities begun before effectiveness and
financed from the PPF advance and cofina"ciers' contributions. The estimated
completion date is June 30, 1990.
74.      The identification, preparation and supervision of all studies and
training programs will be carried out with the assistance of resident
specialists financed under the proposed project. Such studies and programs
and the award of any fellowship will be subject to prior approval by the
Association and the other donors based upon supporting documentation which
will include a detailed justification, plan of execution, and supporting
services to be provided (Sections 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07 of the draft DCA).
75.      The Project Coordinator will ensure that semi-annual progress reports
be prepared for each project component and he will call a meeting at least
semi-annually with the Chiefs o-f E,9rations and other senior Government
staff. Such meetings will reviev the status of project activities and will
consider the results of each project component, including expenditures made,
staff training results, policies developed and institutional changes produ-
ced. Semi-annual reports will be sent- to IDA (Section 3.09 (c) of the draft
DCA). The Government agreed during negotiations to evaluate the performance
of each resident technical assistant at the end of his first year of assign-
ment and of each short term consultant upon completion of his task. These
evaluations would be transmitted to IDA for review (Section 3.02 (e) of the
draft DCA). The Project Coordinator and the Chiefs of Operations will also
ensure the accessibility of necessary information to both technical assistants
-and intermediary agencies (section 3.02 (c) of the draft DCA).
76.      Project Costs and Financing.  The total cost, net of taxes, of the
project is estimated to be US$8.5 million. Foreign exchange costs amount to
US$6.6 million, about 75 percent of project costs. Contingencies amount to
about 16 percent of project base costs, excluding the costs of activities to
be identified, and are based on expected domestic inflation of 12 percent per
year, international inflation of 8 percent (average Bank KV index during
period). The costs of consultants per staff-month (including salaries,
housing and other allowances, travel, and cost of recruitment) have been
estimated on a basis that the Government has found realistic in relation to
those prevailing locally for expatriates having similar qualifications as
those required for the project.



- 18 -
77.      The project will be financed on a parallel basis by an IDA credit and
grants from UNDP, UNFPA, EDF and FAC. For each project component, Annexes
VII and VIII give the financing plan and the IDA contribution, respectively.
The Government's contribution estimated at about US$0.3 million equivalent
will pay the salaries of the incremental Beninese staff, including one
secretary for each of the five agencies involved in the project, two public
finance statisticians in the NPE, one accountant in the C M and two computer
technicians for the CAA and the Treasury. The Government will make provisions
in its annual budget for funds sufficient to provide this support.
78.      Expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
Credit include:
(i) services of consultants and experts;
(ii)  costs of training activities (local staff salaries excluded);
(iii) fellowships;
(iv)  office equipment, computers and vehicles;
(v) salaries of the project unit's personnel and operating costs of the
project unit;
(vi)  expenditures to be specified under the "activities to be identified"
component of the project; and
(viii) repayment of the advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
79.      Procurement and disbursement.  The selection, qualifications,
experience and terms of employment for all advisors financed by IDA will be
subject to approval by the Association (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft DCA).
No single purchases of above $100,000 are foreseen under the Project.
Contracts for purchases of goods which are less than US$100,000 but more than
US$50,000 will be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines for international
competitive bidding. Contracts for purchases of goods of less than $50,000
but more than $25,000 will be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures which are acceptable to IDA, and contracts for goods for less than
US$25,000 will be awarded on the basis of quotations from not less than three
reputable suppliers. The aggregate value of IDA-financed equipment and
vehicles is expected to be about US$0.4 million. Separate accounts will be
maintained by the Government for all project activities, and will be audited
each year by auditors acceptable to the Association. All disbursements from
the credit account would be against full documentation (up to 100%, taxes
excluded), with the exception of salaries and local operating costs of the
project unit (up to 80% of total cost) for which monthly statements of
expenditures will be prepared. IDA supervision missions will review
Government records on procurement and disbursement under the project,
specifically the monthly statements of expenditures.
80.      No disbursement applications of less than $20,000 equivalent will be
accepted by IDA. An IDA revolving fund of US$300,000 equivalent will be
established to cover about three months of project expenditures and will be
replenished on the basis of the regular Government reimbursement applications



- 19 -
(Section 2.02(c) of the draft DCA), The opening of a special account for this
fund will be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 61O1 (a) of the
draft DCA). The Special Account will be monitored by the Project
Coordinator. Disbursements out of the Special Account will be cleared with
the Caisse Autonome d'"Aortissement, the debt mAnagement office.
81.      Benefits and Risks.  Tbh  benefits will accrue to Benin over many
years as the advice and the training provided lead to increased efficiency in
economic and financial management including improved policy analysis and
decision making. The project will specifically lead to an increased
Government capacity to (i) prepare sound projects that will form part of a
realistic program; (ii) prepare macroeconomic and sectoral plans that are
feasible and are internally consistent; (iii) manage its finances including
its public debt; and (iv) improve the data and information base. Obviously,
the project will not solve all public sector management problems in Benin.
IDA will continue its dialogue through economic sector work in coordination
with other developlent assistance agencies assisting Benin and may consider
finance further technical assistance and training. One of the main risks of
the project derives from the difficulties in ensuring that qualified Beninese
can effectively benefit from the presence of the foreign experts. The project
will include a number of measures which will minimize the risks associated
with counterpart selection and training (see paras. 44 and 61), and special
efforts will be made to ensure the accebsibility of necessary information to
both technical assistants and intermediary agencies. Given the large number
of components, there is an additional risk that project implementation could
suffer from insufficient coordination. However, particular care has been
taken during project preparation to reduce this risk, including (i)
centralizing the overall responsibility for the project in the JPS, (ii)
requiring that Chiefs of Operations hold coordination meetings on a regular
basis under the chairmanship of the Project Coordinator, and (iii) utilizing
the services of two intermediary agencies to facilitate the coordination of
operations financed by various donors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Associstion, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
83.      Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness Vill
be: (i) the opening of a special account for deposit of the IDA revolving
fund; and (ii) the conditions for the first disbursement under the PAC grant,
under the UNDP grant and under the UDFPA grant, shall have been fulfilled
(Section 6.01 of the draft DCA). A special condition of disbursements for the
services of the project analyst will be that the Government take all necessary
action for the reorganization of the ECP in a manner satisfactory to the
Association (Schedule 1, para. 3 (b) of the draft DdA).
84.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - AECO!mENDATION
85.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 15, 1984
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 21 -                             ANNEX Iw
Page 1 of 4
I A -LI IAu
- LsCI.   Z      S DATA SH
MIII                                 muses cacumn icvszronh  AVu ) j^
UK                      m(S    SHTS iTZ         lb
1961k        Sb,L  T    Jb           LU                    NIDOICIICO
t   m&Ja  UIAl-        AFICA S. CW SAHARA    AV ICA S. OF SAARA
ADJU)ST   SUWNT PATIOS
Jtaunts  TOTAL                    lJ.0        40.0        N.0               63.9                      97.2
mu                      36.0       55.0    u     .o               73.6                    103.1
Fou.l                  15.0        25.0        39.0               51.6                      8.5
SMCONAIVus TOTAL                   2.0         6.0        16.0              12.5                      17.2
-ALI                     2.0        6.0        23.0               16.7                     23.5
FINA                    1.0         3.0         8.0               d.l                      14.2
VfCA-IA CZ aO aSmCOair)             12.9         4.1         3.1               7.3                       5.2
e          t~MPL-TSIC A20
ninnY                             41.0        64.0        48.0              46.4                      42.9
SUXcoIDAt                         23.0        25.0        3t.01/            25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITIRACT tATSE C)              4.6        11.011      27.9              26.5                      37.1
rAsslca CARS/TilusAn  FoM            1.4         4.6         5.5/f             3.3                      L8.$
LOADD E2LIVESTdIUSANJU POP          L2.2        32.0        71.9-             45.3                      97.8
TV MCSLVVSJIT1USAND P?P              ..          ..          0.1                2.2                     18.6
NESP4A  ('AILY OCICRAL
INVIIST') CIRUELATION
I  TSIoUsS  POPULATSiO              1.5         0.O         0.3               6.7                      18.2
CeIC  ANUA ATNONICE/CAPLTA           0.2         0.5         0.31t             1.0                       0.6
TOTAL LABOR POC (nMUS)            l049.0t   1292.0        1621.0
FEWA  (FERCET)                    65.4        4 *5.1      45.3              34.5                      36.1
AiCUIOLTURE (PERCEUr)             54.0        50.0        46.0               76.9                     56.6
lsMusTIt (vvcvT)                   9.0        12.0        16.0               9.8                      17.5
FAlTtCZcATlONl amE (rcisCT)
TOTSAL                             51.2       48.6        45.1               40.9                     37.0
IOU'                              57.1        54.3        51.4               53.0                     47.L
reMALE                            45.5        43.1        39.3              28.9                      27.0
SCOSOIC utfNErf RATIo                0.9         1.0         1.1               1.2                       L.3
OS  DISTEZEU         l:
naRCLu ui ftLVArE: LCOHE
lcvEDsB a
KICHEST 5Z OF UOUSECILDS          31.4/         ..
IIdESe  202 OF NUSEIIOWS          SI.           .
LOWLS  AUZ OF WOUSSdOLDS           5./          ......
LaWW     r UV uuUS&KlWS      s      7. ...
FOM         TAWCr CROS
-   DEsTI DT AIISU=  W EI PeSKt
LEVEL CUSS PEK CAPITA)
URAI                                ..          ..          ..              1bS.9                    534.2
URAL                                ..          ..        U4./h             87.4                     255.9
ESXiITeU aLATivE IoVexTI lsNLC
SVEL (OiS ISA CAPlTA)
-               OMAN                                 ..          ..         ..              100.8                     491.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        82.UIh            64.6                     I8I.1
ESTNATCD FOP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PUVFeT Lta    eVOL (Z)
USSAN                               ..          ..          ..               39.5
MURAL                               ..          ..        65.0               69.0
,,T AVAILAKE
OT APPLLCAE
N OT S S
/.  - - group awerages for each Indicator are populaclor-wtghted ariLthmtlc mns. Coaerage of councrtes aMOna ctn
.4dlctacer  depends as availeblllty of data ad La not unltorn.
lb  Unldisa oatrwiue notad. -iota for 196V refer to any year between 1959 and 190t; -Data for 1910- betwcen 19t9 and
1971; and data [Ur rostrc lteCsnt stLse- batwee  1979 end 1981.
Ic  1977; f4 1962; /a 1975; 1! 197b; a  P;pitnftos; lb 1978; It 1913.
-ay 1983



-22-                                        ANBEI
Page Z of 4
~~~~ 06 E
=5                     csr        oor  WmL  b
STVm?U'=      am   S. w _m         Ac% S. OF Samm
AM cmano  s. so
2U~~~~L                  12~~~~U.6  1126      2224
19.5       20.'       22.4
zom  cavzu cus ams. c00                                 32.026r mA.
cr         ei A     m
CKA~~b09aI  E        nPWLB     35.0       55.0       70.              19.                      F2                   -   _
10113A80.51n-7Eaa CTh0UAInE)   Z0.o        29.0       30S9.0
M     foUmAZm CZ OF 7ML)           935        2.6      W39                                       25
IOPUMATZU
fohT1URm. is vEw --00 C511L)                             8
SEZ r  vuLa=   C:IW                                    1. 6
~~~aa~~~3 .m a  _5.U~D23
m .L                            15.2       234        39               29.5                    56S
SQ. m. am. LAW                 04         3m        155.5              96&                    131
romA        AGK  M      CE)
0-4  IRS                       461        453        A5.1              45.0                    65.9
lI-" MG                          S3        5.         St_l             SZ.1                   S512
65 no                            26 ZA        7        Z.              2.9                     2-5
 AZ    um C:)
2.2        2.6       27               2.                      2.a
SX         S.        41                62
CUU  335131 55A1 CME MMC          35.56      93         9.0             47.9                    62.6k
00423 A5:E (PM ITiIS)             26..       22-.l      17.1             l9.2          l5.Z
aes5  bZ           a0 x            3.3        3.3        3.2              3.2                     3-2
FAK:LI r-AAN
s ,K0M. a)U. CDIS. --                        -          .                -
Is  (:0  tiRzz 'U )       - _..           ._. ..
-gsD   COFWj-Dwx
M  W23            E C1D.
C1969-71-=0)                      95.0      S01-0       92.0             67.5                    65.7
PER "APMT svP OF
CARIS CZ OF 67 EU=M)           10.O        97.0      103.0              50                     97.1
-=NS CGAL-5 PER iMr)            SS.0       54.        Sr-.             5-2                     56.0
OF 'mIC  AX35AL AM0 EUUE       15.o       1e         13e               18.1                    17.2
-rT11  (CGO 1-6) DEA2 312        40.0       41.2        33.2                                      25
LIFE EC;_ AT 167 CSEaS)          37-2       42.1        9.9             67.4                    51.9
151A1 ZK_ m"i (CM ':dOGS         20.s6      11.4       l52.1            12s                     117.6
ACCS 10 SaFE WSIE (C ZP)
TWIlL                             ._         ._       2-0              247                     24
US                                ..         .-       520               X.i                    70.5
mOlA?                             ..        .-        L.0                8                     1.3
accss 'W Ll0er tA 01500?
CZ eF POPL.Timm
TOML                              ..       14.0         ..              2J.1
gas                               ..       .3.          ..              637
RTALma...                                   1.0         ..              2L.9                     .. L
foPULATIOR Pg rAswW            233.0    2559B 0.     L7050.0          1742u.6                 12151.
.0r. PM dtStM; P'tSq            270%.0d  W     .0     10.0             3456.Z                  229.0
rw_. Pat )S?ZTL aEm
moT                            750.0      850.0      no0.c            183.2                   107.4
gas                            540.0      230.0      39o.071           350.6                  402.3
RURAL                         718.0      2200.o     1120.0k           3177.5                  3926.7
AZISS1IS Pz JS?rrAL  M.                    30.2       17.- *f
AVEllC SEZE OF  CIUOL
TOTAL                             .
.URAL                             ..
TAL                               .           .          ....
Una  -                            ...... .. .
ACCS lb CLI=. Ca OF URELLIGS)
TOrAL                             ..
50D                           .........



-23                                                       ANNEX I
-                            -  p-~~a&3 of 4
_un   _ _ u- Lu L.r -.L    -L         -u    ~sflpte _  _u _  t 3LuL  ;  .dtLu.. 5.    14.6  a.              Lu  __in _u. _ _nUnU
som                                 ~v. .r -gaa .?   l 11 -. _   -.0a12euu.-   " -"tau       .. St-IM                        1 -.       _SE1   aw
_u in.b      @ -, I)     -   |-         m  siL   u            1 _- ta.    gTa._ _ea  _d   Mu.   _             b  _r Lu a~          L
_        . 5 _ ..a e. =u.                                                     ,  ._ _ ..r uE        L   _v Lr                            __ 
LuL. L    u4.u            -     L       . LutS.-             a.S5-    t   - .5  ,aLa.Sias.   . -  Luf...                   .     h
u t .Ca    --.W. -a    3te    -Now.   '.-V  -  ..-- L               I     Lu' L      u -*   4.3W.  me-             VW
-u.   e_, .a'3..)       _LuLu4. _ _ _,.s Iae _,                                                                     3W n,    WO'a
om. aL.   fS              IE.Iua.L MIS               .'  rue.m.       ~       ~        1ni.aaESiLs  .L5LS 
---r2| 8--|sM--&
co sfum-. noLua. q*A.-.S-L.--....S. __,4.d hLc                                                                        .e Lu e S * ,- Wt by_
5e LuiSSiLust -, ---   t   -   5*5. g.6L                  ..--Lu E-.aa -.U- --31 ..- ~ M. 11    .                rn Lu
M- -,t.-t    R. _ kue_sw- o -. _0.4     _                                           _                          _    s_        _    _
-e     0-                                     _ 4 is     _' .             _,                         _ __ _ u,       a" a  ___
_ _L_ ILu Lu...                                                           b..t..aa' Lu     S  _ _. --. ...a... L .a -so.......     CLul
I - Lt tu, 1_ Mo. two. -A  Lute1:   UIL1 4. L                                .. _W. L_    _ Uu.   -         r Sitow_
_              e.,e,                                                                       - w       _   __~~"he  _01_   a  _
1aU*a'  L   1.Luba   .s-V0fi u                                                                        W     *4 .l ityLLus
- _.s 320., L .. 4.6..                                                      .4. 4.~t..... m. t.- .t.....L 4.91..           eSI ..C  , iV_
Up-  Sam                    v-~~~~~~~Lss)..Ls -..14.1..Lu441Lu.ua~   u..
_SLuS 0613.6aLu.Si  W -L   1.k.ubU,fu__                                        _________________-_._                          ____
*ts tt@  !0  u 5kU.                                                             a _.i   ,..    is 3 _a__
_1          aIl                              _                              .-_    _r -M  ZC  a.s _  _. __    _
_Lw.g%             zouL _5.             .      .     -                     L            5   . _       - an            V=
_ .s __w _ _.m-- -&G- _
_u.  Fg.jWa ~sS.  - t.                  "      L _.                                                                  c. W   W   .   - _  .-    *L _ 
15.1. M U. LIPZ.        S.-&  -ft S- Luspu.1S         7 d.Ma-.   ..36..Lusu 
_ o _ _ __L ~- - t-W --                  -, .                                                            --, ...
_s  _       _ut    bL.f .3W                 USt'    7                     L..55L,1-uUu   ZLu   s33     4                         uL
*-4.e Lu     -     C -_S   . - _      .   _.     -                                                 --S .    _ _r S_   . t.  Lu  _-
_-0   _ VU__. _..e-  .E . V- flq. .4 h._ tl, __ _|.dLe   e              _1_                     ttr        *1_0     "a,     s    s f_t.
OiLul'.         .  T    Wv                                                   .. __ _ _* -t _- to_& Lua11,L       Ln _ . is... W  .5
-         -              *._ -      a. -       _ 4   .                                      _ -     _  _  %  aa.t
-        WI   W. _L-  %.U-b 5t                            ff _           _w
too. v'M -1    a -                                                  log                                              L
C-)               K - 4    Ll .s.f..  h LLu    9saLu  5*m w    ....... L. MLv  .51-   w5 o.-M .1 5.0
Lu.ZLus 1.? -       Z     -  u45.1--   at  .   LuLuN                   -IV       LuWI pad6L.     pL1sL1L   n31
-           :   4. Lu s  _   *5       - Lu"  .:       .. 4             U                                    _.  S      _   a
7- wp_&L  _. -. zg.*    -1*                                                               -t.. _F-ou  _               Ut S-US   L
33a.1a515 -_ .4.4.3*1W _10) *_a-Lu)                       -        __t. 550iSu.x -_ _I LuLu'. LuL-   t  _
1.535.194.. Lu  ind                                                                 .  Mci         Si Luw                     Lu 
- E        )~~C-t                          ft]-            _*-os*_|zsC |E                        _            _       _
_ _ _*- -. 3..   _ t     _ t   - _    a _I   Lu  w  _u  U-    _      g       IaIL*_
-*4. tin.  t530      tUa. :_.Lu11.XL."                                                        .    a      -     teLL-t  .. :a.
aS55          53    6$ p. Lu   :_, -   in        .1  49            _     _     i - _-    _       a  e..t  _ _-nLs
O_1    53.53..- '....s...i - Lu~ -    .a ~   .SS. a  v~t Lu-                  3.7  -       55      f    -L :-   W   a *-    al . L *
*... 0:0 5.1. t-at ,...41 - Lu!  flEa.  af .e-
*i.r psp - 1 _ 0. fl. Lu _t15 s_ta.                         _ _ _@ __ __
_g- btao a.'.  *_ C,.   _..       u   .a-.         a.                            .   r _..          a.t.t_: d       _      __ LuStS  _
35LuIS. a550. liP.. _u LSt __te..                       _-                          Uwo As. -in 55916 e_.:   laLu L       mM .-L- pLu
Alta               -      u     * 3       5*        6. Ld.6*uMLE
4.5.1. _aL   Lui  _l5..5 _.-. _5' r~ _in  1_. Lu               r      _       S     -  W     .54 3. 3W          i.SL
X r _ _     _      s      _     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Ut -               -
v..Ss   a4 L      a-asW.&   -   a.  IC3%s...ua.sfu a.  a  a.                                                 ...is 1-.15W66.hn L
.   .4.6-WI 4.4._5-  5 .Lu... -..6.L    u1,3.                               aa..a.I           3.-r...................................__wr___
..C*- ~~~~~~~~ -  -  -~I  m..s I. a A ..                                                    T  LS..SI. 3.L   4
. -       -  3-- -*to _.... .1                    -a-R.ON.....                    .    .............a
o  .a .ta-at.a,'.    *n~..  .n           __asn.sLu..a    c. -         _      . .n.. Lu a. ..__-    -. im-wat  a yr ...  Su a. _ft-a.
S_             S.        ..                     - Lt 1. 1.. _a.    -_ L'" _                                         -     L
-u c-tta_.                                                                      _     - -*U* . a-    W     ts   ..     d.-  _  _  tILu- p-  -   -_L rbow __
1-   .4   _    _   _   -s    _ .a    ttn..t........ . ............  Ia..   -.  ..aa  pOfl....................... t  _...    ri.ni    2a v .et _ s.. 1   _u  It _
_--Lu  .   a.. _fl _r 6..1.  (Ltat.._ SLut1 6               (5.5.          Lu.   . _             -_ _.~4  -r      -_ Lu 3W               _
.63..Lu          _.u3   4.a_.6   _*_.   .__ 6          5 a.          *        t.. _ t..
d.4_t. -f _ (_ *t.'   F M 1-*. -iLuat    _ 1    Lu 15.5                       __
_ d_.ibt -  flr.2-r     _8 _tl  W V-                   9~                      _-&Mt.                               |1-. _ 2w_a
_M -"r   _3  -tX            _U%  by t_m  -s | t_               }            ---                           h_F____
Lu _015 ..u  SI ...taI. C.ts.S Si ,3a.t'.CqEfu~75. Iu at    0 .6, Lu4   3.   ICSb   u
_aa ff _ u f                61& W-"   .. *     _a   *   -1  a. L                           a- v.  u. .  _-. -   t. *_
WV. Lu  .1           W W.- -t     _ K..5 - I_Lul  Lu. 3...                      S.             _ - Sin. *51   a c   a.
s.L-  -A-   .~ -C6 L -   vua.a.: 4L-. Lu ..l                            .S  ...,.a  .3           5ga5-tt**.  aiuL
51 1..1 Lu_4.1.6 L           t?..ot t        _                       -                   5S.L  a 154 33- I. t.  1 t             151 _
lu  01t2 F..     S  .Sa l-s-a -t*    .. ROW                               1_ t . -                                      &S r_  .-.  L   s .
.6b,avN.Lu.1                             6..aa6I.L  htec  ..e.I. L~ a&-P.S.. -  .a-C v                                     .6W   5 aE  in. at.     
*Il.    a  ....  .16 55565    .~Lu     aWa  u                     ...~. a  .sa. .a LuIt"1 pae..Sg. S .1.  u             S1ad
0.4  p55.. a? r_iS  _U?~  .a.e a. ....  m.a_   1_.                           56 3*_.. Lue :56  4...  _-  _. Lu-at.rn.tms a.5_ 5_
55.Si -  I_r :_ a_  at 1v st.o It i_5  D..a Lu fl                           .Iatg. _         _.-'  a Lu .0ltas _  a.5 *4. 5*u  S
SE  ad5u1 - -   _ _ 4- .- Lu .d4. ,a._.. a, 7  6 L                          Lu t_Lu. r_. _ _a  LtS    .._ 
Lu    e_ _.:                           t    _   . s      _  * _        _      -       L.s.a 1f _L  u  . t _         -e__
-d     _ P-.     *- 53a                  _ _      : t_ _ $   *  * _
ts~~~~~~~~~-   -P_    "&t~  lo                                                                         &  _-A _  1_t._ *-L." tw  _*- s. W.
4.b% %4                              - U .                        mamt-                                  1        1 !w
_ 4.11 ,_*S ,~) 1.P5.          .6 -4.4.6 ,-                                Z.~-Ia-,- 1 ......  ... s                _u hg   - _.5.3-  a-,
C_Cd_. le.a   *s 34   *            a@.; tS.  S Is  ass.        _            _     aae
us.                                      _~                                       Ta    WI    r  S t_z  
g          >z -_ - _ Stw___ c_  rit _ Ia_.................'.   u.. L. .1  L.  . ?.5t6.  ~L    .   Wu.                   a         ..4..... _L_u
W se  t _ SLu *: 5. nASi_    aaW 4.4..                                       WI_   ..S.   st           5._ _ _$ _
_ Lu 35 ta       LI. San: a. .515    aSae.g..                              64..     s -     tS~at  65.5     m as-St 5
-_S  _SI *.1-___., : am.... f.~.S-...S*..6.a.af. .3. .4  6I.                  .a ....1,S.W4.5p.              ............  -E    2SUSu a .s _
mm  a _.. t6 . .a_. _s _,                                        _h lf taa  * 1tf 6l  a_  t. ._                         -
_         e   a-"    _      as-                                  _-E __atea. _u   Lu-t *_,                 ot u    4  .      _ L 
e          .&-  3-             l _             as . _- _                                  a a    t_.         .iL "W  no         ._
Lt  I - vWa  as t3-. _5S a  I .3                         .    
5.4. a. pata. L_u 4.ta'5 s.s.a_ .&.._
-..st S...   r--..-.t- t.n  a         L..a.. .. _..  .
,  ...L  43515L  Esa-I aa.- _3a   **..S                                                                    u    u~.   u   354



-24 -
Page 4 of 4
BENIN
ZCaiOmC IBDICAOBS
OR= DOMTIC PROD=CrTI  1961                                                           ANAL RATE OF GROUTS.%
X1978 constant Priem)
ass mIlton             % or GD?                            1976t1
CiP at fzkwt Pries                 951.8                  100.0                              3.1
Gross Docestic  vest  t             m.6                    35.0                              14.1
Groa Domestic saving                12.5                    1.3                              9.5
Current Accoun< Balance           -328.9                  -3.6                              142
Usports of Goods. llE              298.9                   31.4                              11.5
Zaports of Goods, BS               658.0                   69.1                               r2
OUTPUT. rA FORC  AID
- PRODUCTIITr INIQ9I              Va.lu Added                 Labor Force           al  add R!r Voix
vss Milion               ousand        __                       I
Agrioultre                         369.8      44.5       t.M22.0        73.6          303.1    59.9
ITstzy, Constractio
and Publc Works                  102.5       13.4        100.3         6.t         1021.9   201.8
Servces                            357.6      42.1         3B.2         20.3         1086.9   214.6
CGD at Factor CAst              339.9      1O0.0       1658.5       100.0                  100.0
sCOuN-i  FZACE
Cental CGve est
(ClAP Billion)             % of rD        a
9gs1                1981    isi96- 
current Reven1e                     52.6                2D.6      16.6
Currant Ezpendtdres                 348                 13iS      11.3
Zvestaet Ezpnditure                 25.1                 9.8      4.7
Tzacsfies                            0.4                 0.2      0.4
set lending                          2.8                 1.1       2.0
Overall deficit (-)             -10.5                -44t      -1.2
Unteal Borrowing                    13.9                 5.4      2.4
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRIS              1976       1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
(Oiflo CPATYOtstand-Ig nd Period)
Eoney and Quasi Money               30.6      34.9      39.0      46.7     6t.4     7t.3
let Cla1w on Central Gwernswr      -           -9.4    .12.9    -t11.     -17-5    -20.9
Bank Crdit to Private Secior of      2        3B.6      47.t     59.4      85.0     ST.0
(Percentage or Index Smber)
oney and Quasi It-my !.s % of VS3    22.5      23.2    23.2       23.9     28.5      2rt.6
general Price Index (19zt-10C)      83.8       86.8   100.0    113.3    131.1    159.2
Annual Pereentage Change in:
Generl Price Index                 ..          3.6    15.2      13.3     15.7      21.4
Net ClaiQs on Central Gov't.       ..        -32.4   -37.2       8.5    -48.3    -19.4
Bunk Credit to Private Soetor      ..         20.2    22.0      2S.1     43.1       2.6
a/  Averare.
b/ Includes Public Eaterprises.



- 25 -
Statbs of Thnk GroM OperaLatc iu nI
A. Staet of IM Credits (as of Sepiber 3D, 3194)
ChmwI (lss           )
Credit 1      Yea_r__     __TBik  ID I/ UfIh brsed I/
Rim credits fky disbe5492
826-         197    lbwdn       caba  Part                           19.3         ZT
997-BN E19g.)   Bir             TZUI   Dweloment                     10.00      6.73
1O30-M       1981                lbn Feeder Boads                     7.O M
117Z-M       19B1    01z3        }gPoar. nmu Developaxt              20.00      12.82
1142-M       1981   Bdn                                              11.3D       4.79
t171-ES      19B1   Bn           CDtonoia 'Taer SamtiAz               5.00       2.05
11891 l9     19Bl   Benin        pomw E*Ime~  andl T                  1 &    *    .49
120-EM        192   Bn           TML in Pe;trom sector                 .0        3.64
1246-M        1982   BWin        Secad BExmtim                       14.00      12.70
1314-EN       1983    Rn         2bo Taml DeweloputLt                2:).00     15.3D
1-m       2/   1984   nin        Third Feeder                         6.0        6.00
iE( 2/   1984   ~                Forestry                             2.80       2.E3
14W-M1    1984   ln              Third Feeder  s                      6.0        6.00
1531-m  2     .1B4    tn         Si Olnield Delopnxt II              18.        18.00
150-Mf   1984   Bn               Forestry                             2.60       2.6D
1577-M B /   19B4 Rortin         Nabet  ydroe]ctric.                 15.00      15.00
Total                              221.74     109.19
Of ubidi  s been repid               9.96
Total now aitstirg                                    211.78
Total rr beild by Mt~                                 211.78
Total -adisbured                                      109.19
B. Statement of Regionl Bk  Td ae Credits to Bamn, Ivory Coast, NWIr, SeneQa,
bgo, tUpper Volta
q.                                                                               1$ millim
Is,m or                                                        hwmt (lees s)
credit NO.    Tear        er    Parpose                          k    IUisbursed
969-WAY      19W    B3RD        Project P      r%matfm r Credit      3.0         1.94
2242/V        19E5   BIAD        *egial Developent             6.1     -         6.05
1331-W        1      MAD         RagLma DeveaopDEt                   14.0       34.O0
1/  1gidxi  lith Credit 109D-U, TMh ctecits and Spemal Thad credits bave been damted
in special Drawfrs M*fts
TIhe dol3ar awmots in s-eq colzuas represeat th do2lla equivalenftus imrg ezmahge mte at
the tim of credit    iatico.
2Not yet effectve.



- 26 -
Annex III
page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REUB L%  OF EN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(Supplementary Project Data Sheet)
Section I    Timetable of Key Events
(1)  Project Identification:  Bank Economic Mission    June, 1982
(2) Pre-Appraisal 1ission                              February, 1983
(3)  Formal Government Request                         Nay, 1983
(4)  Appraisal Mission                                 December, 1983
(5) PPF Approval                                       July, 1984
(6) Jegotiations                                       October, 1984
(7) Expected Credit Effectiveness                      June, 1985
Section II    Special IDA Implementation Actions
PPF financing has been granted to undertake initial project start-up
activities, including the establishment of a special project unit,
assistance to the debt management office, and the preparation of training
programs.
Section III    Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a)  Assign to each resident expert, before arrival, an appropriate nuber
of qualified Beninese counterparts, secretaries and other support
staff as needed (para. 61);
(b)  lake an evaluation of the performance of each resident technical
assistant at the end of his first year of assignment and of each
short term consultant upon completion of his task (para. 75);
(c)  Furnish for the Association's approval detailed proposals before
undertaking any training program and any of the activities to be
identified, and before awarding any fellowship (para. 74);



- 27 -
Annex III
page 2 of 2
Special conditions of credit effectiveness will be:
(a) the opening of a special account in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Association in vhich the proceeds of the revolving fund will be
deposited (pars. 80);
(b)  the conditions for the first disbursement under each of the UNDP,
UNFPA and FAC grants shall have been fulfilled (para. 83).
Condition of disbursement
The adoption of the agreed upon reorganization of BCP including the
pub3ication of a decree modifying BCr's responsibilities will be a
condition of disbursement for the services of the expert to be
recraited for the BCP (para. 48).
sr



- 28 -
Amez 'IV
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PrAWNING AND ECONOMIC MANAGDIENT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED RESULTS
Project                                                             To Be
ObJectives                Inputs*           Expected Results     Completed By*
Planning and Project
Preparation
Strengthen             Macroeconomist      Improved analysis    May 1988
macroeconomic          (36 m/n beginning   and projections to
analysis              -6/85)                produce Notes de
Conjoncture
quarterly
Improve project        Project Analyst     Introduction of       May 1987
analysis and           (24 m/r beginning   formal project
selection capability   6/85)               analysis and
selection proce-
dures
Strengthen link        Investment          Established           May 1987
between investment     Programer (24 m/m  procedures linking            -
programs and budget    begin-nng 6/85)      investment program
program with cur-
-rent budget
Improve industrial     Industrial Advisor  Formal industrial   May 1987
project preparation    (24 u/n beginning   project preparation
and supervision        6/85)               procedures
Develop livestock      Livestock Advisory  Livestock Sector      June 1987
sector program         Services(30 m/mn    strategy
beginning 6/85)
* The numbers of man-months (m/m) and the expected completion dates do not
always correspond to calendar periods as consultancy services are not
continuous in all cases and are for some assignments provided by teams of
experts.



- 29 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
Public Finance
Maagement
Improve the opera-     Accounting Advisor  Adaptation of CAA's March 1986
tions of the CAA       (6 mfin beginning    accounting to suit
5/85)               National Accounting
plan
Computer Systems    Computerization of   June 1986
Analyst (9 m/a      national public
beginning 5/85)     debt management
operations
Improve budget         Public Finance       Introduction of      June 1986
structure              System Specialist  uniform budget
(12 m/m beginning   nomenclature
3/85)
Improve the operations (i) Accountant      Revision of           March 1986
of the Treasury                            accounting procedures
and regulations
(ii) Computer       Updating and
Systems Specialist  computerization of
Treasury accounts
(total 9 m/n
beginning 3/85)
Strengthen generation  Economic            Procedures for re-   January 1987
of public finance      Statistician         gular production of
statistics and        specialized in      public finance data
related indicators     public finance      and economic indicators
(18 m/m, beginning
7/85)
Evaluate customs       Short-term          General diagnosis    January 1987
operations             consultants         of the Direction des
(6 m/m beginning    Douanes and inter
6/85)               alia evaluation of the
customs collections



- 30 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 3
Statistics
Improve basic          National Accounts (a) Improved proca-    December 1988
statistics produced    and other              dures for produc-
bv INSAE               macro-statistics       tion of national
specialists           accounts and other
(36 m/m beginning    macro data
4/85)
Expenditure Sur-  Cb) Household expen-  April 1987
vey Advisors          diture survey and
(60 m/m. beginning    results
9184)
Demographer       (d) Analysis and        September 1986
(18 m/m beginning      publication of
2/85)                  1979 census and
1983 survey results
Training
Assessment of          Training advisor    Assessment of         Aueust 1986
training needs in key  (18 m/m beginning   training needs of
ministries and         3/85)                Gover.ment agencies.
agencies and design of                      Implementation of
training program for                        specific traininR
counterpart staff                           programs for
Beninese professionals
working as counter-
parts with the
technical assistants
Improving skills in    In-service train-   Increased project    June 1987
project preparation    ing program in      an"alysis capabilitv
and supervision        project preparation,
analysis and super-
vision
Cbeginning 4/85)
'b
Improving skills       Training program    Improved accounting  December 1987
in business            in business          skills and improved
accounting             accounting           accounting procedures
(beginning 1/85)    in public and private
enterprises
Improving skills       Experienced tax      Two tat auditine     December 1985
in tax auditing        auditor with        brigades of about
training capabi-    five members each.
lities (6 m/m -     Increased Government
4/85)               capability to collect
taxes.



- 31 -
Annex V
PEOPLE'S  EPIUBLIC OF BEJ
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOXIC NANAGEMENT
Principal Advisees and Nain Counterparts
TA, Psitim Pcipal Advis                             Other Direct
S~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~F
D'rete1   des Etules         Direclr de la
et synhe                     et de l            am Tu rit
Dlenteu, Bnu Cettul des
PtojeCts
Dteabm IWAE
Tes t Progr.er  Dixretesr de la                    4       de Services Sectorials
i uu-.on et de          de oa
Project Anaylst       Direclaui 3nai Centre         4 Ch  do Serices Tdqas,
des ProjetS                  Danseitral des Projets
Trainig Adviser       Directetr de la              4 Cbefs d'Opimdios du
Coeatio -1 ehrbiqe           Projet. 02Of de Service
des Ressouroes BHaw,
Di.itcr da CEA!O
(nSAE)
Waticral AcoDUata     Directu C&igrl               Directew des Etu&m et
Statisti                                                  ,             et
fi~~qs et Seia.s
1iectur, rmCnta
des Pce
i.nistlre des FiMances et
de l'loomie
IL LustraJ Advisor    Directe  de 1' Ixidtrie      Chefs des Srvices Teqbrzqus
Econxide Statisticin  Directa2 des EBtles et de    Drecteadjoiut, Dizwec    des
specialie   in   la Paifsicatio                Ebxles et de Ia Plariilcatim
2 pdblic finmxne slaltici



- 32 -
Annex VI
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC NANAGMENT
List of Terms of Reference agreed upon during negotiations
Panning and Project Preparation
1. Macrosconomist (MPiS)
2. Investment Programmer (UPS)
3. Project Analyst (NPS)
4. Industrial Adviser (Ministry of Finance and Economy)
5. Livestock Sector Review (Ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives)
Public Pinance Management
6. Accounting Advisor (CAA)
7. Computer Systems Analyst (CAA)
8. Public Finance System Specialist (Budget and Treasury Directorates)
9. Accountant/Computer Systems Analyst (Treasury Directorate)
10   Customs System Specialist (Customs Directorate)
11. Enterprise Tax Inspection Specialist (Taxation Directorate)
12. Economic Statistician specialized in pubic finance (DEP)
Other
13. National Accounts Statistician (INSAE)
14. Demographer (INSAB)
15. Training Advisor (UPS)



- 33 -
Annex VII
PBL'S EL[C 0F 2h
KML AISIKE TIDMT PM PLNDI:   AND EDXOC NANAGuI
Pmoject Epai  Plm Iy tmm
Source of lizeg    MIA    MP   FAC   ED?   DEFIA  Govt  TLtSl1 Be Cost
by Igmm t
Plnmig an
Pzoject Preati    L27   0.44    -                          1.71
Pbic 1nmr
_Anggeumt         -0.74     -   0.12    -      -    -    O.6
Slatist3fB            -   0.M    0.24   0.18  0.19    -     0.81
Traiui g  Doctt.   0.95   0.06   0.M   0.04    -    -        1.09
YW1oV&iPs           0.29   0.14    -      -      -    -    0.43
A     ties to be
Identifecl        0.70   0.30   0.19    -    0.02          1.21
Tbuiap.t/iebice     0.35   0.09    -    0.14    -    -    0.58
Opeating Costs      0.10   0.25    -   02X)    -    O.Z7   0.82
TOM Bse Cost
by s o9ae of
f    ;ranixg   4.40   1.48   0.59   0.56   0.21   0.27  7.51
Con1ingex_ is      0.60   0.2D   O.09   0.09   0.01   0.01   0.99
Ilbt  Pmject Cost    5.00   1.68   0.68   0.64   0.22   0.2   8.50
a



34                      Annex VIII
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNIIIG AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
IDA Financing by Comonent
(USS million)
Oozont                    Total    ID C onm*ibutio       % of IDA
Bus Cofft                       Onrum~
P]nn1i  and Proj. Prp.    1.71         1.27                 74
Pablic Fnwe              0.8t    O     0.74                 86
Statistics               0.81           -                    0
TrainiDg                 1.09          0.95                 87
FeUowabs~                0.43          0.29                 67
Activities to be Id3eitfed  1.21       0.10                 5B
E      VdpueuVVeW.d1w    0.58          0.35                 6D
Opemtinig Omft an        0.32          0.10                 12
[Ltr Savoes for
Project Agmn
TOYAL          7.51           4.40                 59



35-                     Annex_I
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLAMNING AND ECONOMIC KANAGENENT
List of Equi.ment to be financed by IDA
Items              Quantity                Provision in US Dollar
Computer                         2                            200,000
(including accessories
and installation costs)
Vehicles                         6                             60,000
Office Equipment         (Miscellaneous)                       90,000
Base Cost                                                   350,000
Price contingency                                            50,000
Total Cost                                                  400,000
-    h 



- 36 -
Ae   X
Page I of 2
PEBOPLES REPUBLIC OF BENI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANIG AND EWCONIC 
Government Cost Sharig Arrt with UNDP and DEPA
Background
1.       Duri  negottions, the Government confirmed its desire to
utilze part of the proposed credit to finance acivities whch would be
carried out jointly with WDP- and DEPPA-finaced technical assistance
progras in the areas of economic planning, project preparation and
statistcs. The Governmnt has selected the United Nations Deartment
of Technical Cooperation for Dvelopnt (UNDCTCD) as an intermediary
agency to help in the proc mnt, supervsion, and coordination of
technical  sace services and training activities which wi  be
included in the Project Documet to be signed between the UNDPFIIFPA and
the Government.
UNDPIUNFPA Project Document
2.       The UNDPIUNFPA has prepared a Project Document which has been
reviewed by IDA and is expected to be signed by the Government, UNDP,
and UNFPA. December 31. 1984.
3.       The technical assistance package will include the following
m+in positions.
TA Positions            Duration (person months) and Financing Source
UNDPIUNFPA-             Government
Macro-economist             36
Investment Programmer       24
Project Analyst                                      24
Industrial  dvisor                                   24
National account and
other macro-statistics
specialist                 36
Demographer                 18
Training Advisor                                     18
TOTAL                    114                      66
4.        The UNDPIUNFPA -wi11 be sharing the cost of the above
technical assistance and training package with the Government.
Government's contribution will be funded from part of the proceeds of
the proposed IDA credit.



- 37 -
AInex X
Page 2 of 2
5.        In accordance with the IDA credit agreement, the UNDPfUNFPA
Project Document will indicate that no funds will be disbursed for the
services of a project analyst (to be assigned Lo -he BCP) before the
publication of a decree modifying BCP's responsibllities.
The Role of the UNDTCD
6.        The reciprocal rights and responsibilities between the
Government and the UUDTCD will be specified in a service contract. A
first draft of the service contract was discussed on November 6, 1984
during a meeting including representatives of the Government, UNDP,
UNFPA, UNDTCD, and IDA (as an observer). The final text of the contract
will be approved by IDA prior to signature. Any amendment to the
contract will require IDA approval.



- 38 -
Annex XI
PBOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLAflING AND ECONOMIC MAAGENENT
Documents in the Project File
Reference No.                        Document
I               Government request for Bank technieal assistance              ;
project, NPSAE. way, 1983.
2               Cai3se Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) RequesT for
technical assistance, September 1982.
3               Hovine, A., Bank consultant, Les Finances Pabliques au
Bnin, 1983
4               Beninese Ministry of Finance and Centre National de
Formation Comptable, Programme Genfral de Cours de
Perfectionnement
5               ibanefo, U., Bank staff member, Benin Republie:
Profile of Aecoanting and Auditing
6               IBRD, Benin Economic Memorandum, (Report No. 4686-BEN),
March, 1984
7               Ponds d'AAide et de Cooperation (FAC): Assistance
Tecniq~ue -a 1' Administration Economique et Financre
duB 3en, 1983
8               BIT: Rapport sur la Nission effectuee en Republique
Populaire du Benin par le Dr. R.G.A. Boland et Nr.
Alain Mikol en avril 1984
9               Draft Terms of Reference for short-term consultancy and
resident technical assistants
10                Project Document, UNDP/UNFPA (Draft)
11                Financing Agreement, European Economic Community
~~~~I     .. ,^, ............................



j MALI       V1  N<                                                                                 !
./`WURKINA ,/,(
-~4* f~'~~iBENIN 
NIGERIA
IVORY JollA   S'                                                               Ktinams/
COAST                                                                                                                       i
|   A TN T I C                    BURKI NA                                               PC    lill 1\
O CEA   N    !-       fOudn6N  
AOAON                             0                      /
4  \   &4io43^Dggouz  \*\ NIGERIA|
4.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
\'  4           r          (s\   /touro   _$%s ~~~~~~~~           ~      ~~~~KANDI/0b  0ultnAIoga,
0Laugou
/1t                                                                                    Ghssk S5s00o ana"
(           f  A TA CO RA Afom 1
TANGUIET                                                 B        R            U
/  Kobli         ouottuo,                       
X ! ~~~~~~~~~OKouofetr , yea                           tt       ef ,'  /
o N;tlIOO    PoPo       ;,od;P              Sisn i                          nunErotl,   / 
Kourouti t 6:L NTN           KoUtopounga     Piocnk
BouhombO.,                                                 jOutl  ouuo        iu
.10'                         B irniX    J                   5ro,                                    510
AnandanaoO                                                  Biro
Iadod    \     oldlaungau7 riSonouman              olVf
(Dompag!ln                                     N               ,
!~~~U u                 r  



I            t~~~~*%~~Iro
l         X,_)    ts~~~~~~~~hcoulXou
1l .o            jbo                  BENIN
i  (tnt          zubstt  t g                       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
'IO beiga   FOR PLANNING AND
.         ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
,  >Doumit       4| /                  {-                                                   Principal Roads                        s
1      SAVALOU,                lo ancueh                                          j-I I  1- Railways
4%      7C International Airports
0choi"<  l   g   gZbcd               .t    Airfields
.   ,sKon i    DASSA20UM         /                                              Rivers
G\bgadvo   Pouignan                                                *       Provincial Capitals
I*  *  National Capital
) 9 s } O ^\d6ho-mbi                   Provincial Boundaries
!\\ I          )t Ad  plamAO                                    -     _    International Boundaries
!    >  z   ~Do          \ANO 
Alam Av6gorn&'       \4                                                                                              6\ 0o'  opIdekpa  i   0
ME                          o                                MtIESO       lb    20    30       40     50    60
la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Apla ht    vjEo    Aio                             nou  J '
rhis map has been prepared by            i    /                                                    14Ibou
The World Ganks staN excluh ival                     Doqbo Tota          Ou b AIh    I
for the OnYenlOfle of the                           Ag'i6  Aoam
reade,s and is excjushvely for the
internal use of rho Wbrld Dlarik 
and the hiternafioniat Fance           LOKOSSA,
Corporation The darnoinations         Aihtiq                                                       A
used end the bounaries Sh'iO%"                      a              L
onIhrna p do not rly FonIh UW                               /vm         Aoe9elao                     r-NOVO 
part at The World Bank and the 
Intalnationalt Finnce Corporationl.
any udgment on the kom4 sleAGOS
Z  of any terriory or any                                                         a's
0  endorsement or acceolance of                                                         UOTONOU
such boundaris,
S               ~~~~~LOM E                  AeujO
|  ! ? 4 . , 9 -






