Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15031
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(CREDIT 1530-BEN)
NOVEMBER 13, 1995
Country Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January
12, 1994 devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French franc is
currently floating.
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCP          Department of Projects (Bureau Central des Projets)
CAA          Debt Management Department (Caisse Autonome d 'Amortissement)
COTECNA    Pre-Inspection Shipping Company
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DEP          Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation
ECU          European Currency Unit
EDF          European Development Fund
EDI          Economic Development Institute
FAC          French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INSAE        National Institute of Economics and Statistical Analysis (Institut
National de la Statistique et de I 'Analyse Economique)
MCT          Ministry of Commerce and Tourism
MEMH         Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydraulics
MIPME        Ministry of Industry and Small and Medium Businesses
MPS          Ministry of Plan and Statistics (Ministere du Plan et de la Statistique)
MTEAS        Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Affairs
MTPT         Ministry of Public Works and Transport
PAGE         Economic Management Project (Projet d'Appui ci la Gestion
Economique)
PE           Public Enterprise
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD       United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation and
Development
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activities



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface   ...............................................................................
Evaluation Summary .......................
PART I: Program Implementation Assessment ........
A.  Evaluation of Objectives ....1I
B.  Achievement of Objectives                              .3
C.  Major Factors affecting the Project                        .4
D.    Project Sustainability                                                             6
E. Bank Performance                                     .7
F. Borrower Performance                                  .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                  .9
H. Future Operations                                   .9
I. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II: Statistical Annexes ....................  12
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments                   .        .       .13
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits                  .         .        .14
Table 3:   Project Timetable              .. ..14
Table 4:       Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual         .          15
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                15
Table 6A:      Key Indicators for Project Operation        .      .      .16
Table 6B:      Fellowships for Training Abroad     ..19
Table 6C:      Summary of Estimate and Actual Technical Assistance Provided             20
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project                                             21
Table 8A: Project Costs .22
Table 8B:  Project Financing .23
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .23
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                            29
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                             29
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .30
APPENDICES
Appendix A:   Completion Mission's Aide-M&moire (with English Summary)
Appendix B:   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:   Description of Technical Assistance Experts
Appendix D:   Auditors Report (Summary)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
CREDIT 1530-BEN
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance Project
for Planning and Economic Management for which an IDA Credit 1530-BEN in the amount of
US$5.0 million was approved on December 13, 1984. The credit was declared effective on
September 13, 1985. It was the first broad based Technical Assistance Credit made by IDA to
Benin. It has since been followed by another Economic Management Project (PAGE) which
became effective on January 31, 1995.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1994 three years after the originally scheduled closing
date of March 31, 1991. Final disbursement took place on November 4, 1994, as of which date a
balance of US$836,728 was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), the French Ministry of Cooperation, the European
Development Fund (EDF), and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UJNFPA) all of
whom received and cleared the report.
The ICR was prepared by Jean-Paul Dailly (Country Officer) and Rosemary Cubagee
(Consultant) of the Country Operations Division, West Central Africa Department. It was
reviewed by Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, COD Division Chief and Mr. Franz Kaps, Operations
Adviser and approved by Mr. Olivier Lafourcade, Director. The Borrower provided comments
that are included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR is based on materials in the project files, interviews with the
Government Officials and the Technical Assistance Experts. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the supervision mission's aide-memoire,
and preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
CREDIT 1530-BEN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background. As fiscal and balance of payment deficits became unmanageable in the early
1980's, the government sought economic advice and financial support from the donor community
and requested Bank technical assistance in June 1982. The Bank responded positively to the
govermnent's request and the Technical Assistance Project for Planning and Economic Management
(TA) was approved in December 1984 and became effective in September 1985.
2.    Objectives and Implementation.  The main goal of the project was to strengthen the
overall economic management capacity of the government. Specifically, it aimed at reinforcing
institutions responsible for macroeconomic policy analysis, public finance management, public
investment programming, project preparation and statistics through training and long-term and short-
term technical assistance.
3.    The project's objectives proved to be overambitious considering the country's circumstances
when the project was approved. Implementation was severely hampered by inadequate management and
weak, poorly-structured institutions. Furthermore, the lack of motivation in the civil service and the
unhealthy political climate of the time were also major obstacles for running an effective staff development
program.
4.    The project did not achieve most of its training, capacity-building and institutional
development objectives. Little progress was made in terms of improving the public investment
programming and monitoring public debt. The performance of the Customs Department did improve
and a revised "budget nomenclature" was prepared.
5.    The achievements of the TA project are limited and are not considered sustainable. The most
useful components were the studies, strategy papers and public sector audits carried out by short-
term consultants for the preparation of adjustment programs. The modest contribution of the project
to the design and implementation of the structural adjustment program will have a lasting impact if
these programs mark the beginning of long-term improvements in the country's economic
performance.
6.    The Bank's performance at the project identification, preparation and appraisal stage
was unsatisfactory. In view of the weak management capacity available in Benin at the time of
project preparation and appraisal, the Bank should have pursued more limited institutional
development objectives. Extensive discussions with the government and future project beneficiaries
about the role, performance and priorities of existing economic management institutions would have
shown that the government and the Bank did not have a common institutional development agenda.
7.    The Bank's supervision performance was also unsatisfactory. Despite non-compliance with
key convenants in the DCA, disbursements were never suspended. The overall supervision input fell



-_jj-
short of the Bank's commitment, formally expressed in the President's Report, to provide intensive
supervision. Supervision missions did not include training/institutional development specialists. The
project also suffered from the lack of continuity in Bank supervision due to the frequent turnover of
Bank staff. Although the project was to be jointly supervised by its cofinanciers, joint supervision
missions were never organized.
8.    The borrower's project preparation performance was generally unsatisfactory. The
government produced a few reports and documents which alluded to major institutional problems but
did not propose adequate solutions. These reports did not reflect the need to coordinate the project's
design with the country's economic management and institutional development objectives. The
review of preparation reports seems to indicate that the government preferred a piece-meal approach
to technical assistance and training rather than the more comprehensive design recommended by the
Bank. With hindsight it appears that the government's approach may have been more suitable to the
political and institutional climate prevailing at that time.
9.    The borrower's performance during project implementation was clearly deficient. Key
covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were not complied with. The covenants
were essential to implementation and included restructuring of the Ministry of Planning, availability
of counterpart staff to the TA personnel and systematic evaluation of the technical assistance.
Training programs and their impact on the performance of the trainees were not monitored. Despite
recommendations in the report of auditors, project-financed vehicles and computers were not
identified. Overall, the government's commitment to the project was weak at all stages of the
project's cycle.
10.   The outcome of the TA project is unsatisfactory. Although the project produced some
valuable outputs in terms of statistical and financial data, macroeconomic analyses and policy
recommendations, the project's institutional development objectives were not met. As indicated in
paragraphs 13 and 28 of Part I of this report, a much smaller operation could have produced most of
the limited benefits actually derived from the project.
11.   Key Lessons Learned: The review of the project confirms lessons derived from similar
stand alone TA projects: (i) a strong political commitment of the government is essential to project
success and managers and staff assisted by the project should participate actively in the design of the
operation; (ii) the project's objectives and design should be based on a careful analysis of structures,
operational processes and skills requirements of the institutions concerned. Where institutional
capacity is weak, project objectives should be modest; (iii) monitoring of project implementation and
evaluation of the performance of long term TA advisers should be based on detailed implementation
plans and performance criteria; and (iv) the Bank should allocate adequate resources to project
supervision; supervision missions should include an appropriate skills mix of economists/country
officers and institutional development specialists capable of adjusting project design to changing
country circumstances. Furthermore, a minimum of continuity in supervision staff is essential.
12.   Experience with the TA project also shows that some of the most important project
achievements did not really need long-term technical assistance and could have been obtained with
the help of a smaller, flexible operation financing a variety of short-term activities, including strategy
papers, audits, special studies, workshops and training.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
CREDIT 1530-BEN
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   In the mid-1970s, Benin opted for a marxist-leninist political, social and economic system.
One of the principal objectives of the new government was to accelerate economic growth
through a major expansion of the economic role of the State. The powerful politburo of the single
political party assumed responsibility for macroeconomic policies and monitored the activities of
all economic ministries. Economic growth accelerated significantly between 1976 and 1981, in
part due to the indirect impact on Benin's economy of an oil and uranium boom in Nigeria and
Niger respectively. When Nigeria and Niger began to experience serious economic difficulties,
Benin also went through a period of economic recession. Furthermore, economic institutions,
weakened by fear and rent seeking, were unable to provide appropriate solutions to worsening
economic problems. As fiscal and balance of payments deficits became unmanageable, due partly
to public enterprise (PE) losses, the government sought economic advice and financial support
from the donor community. It requested Bank technical assistance in June 1982 to strengthen its
economic management, particularly its debt management agency which had been dysfunctional for
several years.
2.    The Bank responded positively to the government's request and proposed to help in three
different ways: first, technical assistance to improve economic management and develop national
capacities, second, a Public Enterprise Rehabilitation project, and third, the opening of a resident
mission which would provide policy and operational advice to the government. The resident
mission was opened in 1983. The Public Enterprise project became effective in 1987. The
Technical Assistance Project for Planning and Economic Management (TA) was approved in
December 1984 and became effective in September 1985.
3.    The Bank's objective in making these three proposals was to develop a more confident
operational relationship with Benin and to lay the groundwork for future macroeconomic and
sectoral reforms when political and economic conditions would be more favorable to an extensive
policy dialogue between the government and the Bank. The TA project was just one of the
operational instruments of the proposed strategy.
4.    The main goal of the project was to strengthen the overall economic management capacity
of the government by reinforcing institutions responsible for macroeconomic policy analysis,
public finance management, project preparation and statistics. As described in the President's
report, the project had six specific objectives: (i) improving the government's performance in the
formulation of its development and economic management strategy; (ii) strengthening public
investment programming, budgeting and monitoring processes; (iii) improving project preparation



-2 -
and project evaluation; (iv) developing a coherent framework for public finance management; (v)
strengthening agencies responsible for collecting and analyzing economic statistics; and (vi)
providing training in economic analysis, statistics, project preparation, business accounting and
business management.
5.    The project was expected to provide the government with a number of new economic and
public finance management instruments. Its components included:
(a)   Public Investment Programming mechanism that would help the Ministry of
Planning: (i) design public investment programs based on realistic macroeconomic
projections and coherent sectoral priorities; and (ii) select, prepare and support
well-conceived, high-priority development projects;
(b)   a Budget Framework that would facilitate appropriate monitoring of public investment
programs and expenditures;
(c)   a Debt Management system, based on improved debt accounting practices, that would
provide the data and analysis necessary for effective debt portfolio management; and
(d)   updated naional accounts and economic statisties.
6.    Project inputs and outputs would include:
(a)   data collection, economic analysis and policy advice by technical assistance personneL
including 18 long-term advisers and a variety of short-term TA assignments;
(b)   staff training in the form of (i) counterpart training by technical assistance personnel;
(ii) local training programs; and (iii) fellowships for advanced studies abroad in
economics, finance and statistics; and
(c)   equipment and logistical support for a number of economic management agencies.
7.    Although IDA was cognizant of existing political constraints and institutional weaknesses,
it appeared that these could be overcome leaving Benin with an improved economic management
process. In retrospect, the project's objectives were overambitious considering the number of
obstacles to be overcome as a result of the country's circumstances when the project was
approved.
* First, political conditions were not favorable to an open economic policy dialogue between
government officials and technical assistance experts. This was a major constraint for implementing
a TA project in the field of economic management. Intemational experts could help develop a more



- 3 -
adequate data base for economic, public finance and debt management; they could also initiate
detailed economic/sectoral analyses and project preparation studies; but it was virtually impossible
to influence decisions made by the govemment on the basis of data and analyses provided by the
project.
*  Second, the institutional framework was not consistent with the economic management processes
promoted by the project. The mandates of the agencies concerned were ill-defined, and constant
political interference weakened official decision-making mechanisms.
* Third, the lack of motivation in the civil service and the fear inspired by the political leadership
were also a major obstacle for running an effective staff development program. The quality of
Benin's civil service had been affected by the departure of some of its most competent officials who
did not support the govermment's political and economic policies. In addition, most of the junior
staff who had joined the civil service at a later stage had not received the type of basic economic
training necessary to derive adequate benefits from more specialized economic and public finance
management training. The local University was particularly weak in this field. Rather than on-the-
job training and specialized training programs organized with the help of TA personnel, a "higher
education project" aimed at improving the curriculum of economic studies, strengthening the
performance of the economic faculty and organizing ad hoc training programs for government
officials, could have been a more effective method to achieve some of the training/staff
development goals of the project.
8.    The project objectives were never formally revised. However, in the late 1980s and the
early 1990s, the project was de facto restructured to better serve the objectives of three
successive structural adjustment programs. The new orientation of the TA project de-emphasized
the use of long-term technical assistance personnel and emphasized the performance of more
specific tasks directly related to preparation and implementation of ongoing and future adjustment
programs. In addition to specific macroeconomic and sectoral studies, the project was expected to
carry out a number of "audits" aimed at providing in-depth analysis of the objectives, performance
and institutional weaknesses of existing government agencies.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The project did not achieve most of its training, capacity-building and institutional
development objectives. Little progress was made in terms of improving the public investment
programming and monitoring process. Better data was obtained on public debt, new borrowings
and actual disbursements; the performance of the Customs Department improved' and a revised
"budget nomenclature" was prepared. The project, however, was unable to computerize debt and
public finance information, due to poor project coordination. A training center was built and the
project eventually organized a number of specific training programs. In the absence of follow-up
I    See paragraphs 20 and 39 below.



by the civil service department, it is not possible to evaluate the quality and the impact of these
programs. Most of the civil servants who were trained overseas never returned to their country
despite stipulations that they return to serve.
10.   Although eighteen long-term advisers were to be provided by the project, only eight were
actually recruited, due to weak project management and cumbersome administrative procedures.
Overall, their performance was not satisfactory. Some of them produced useful data and analyses,
but much of their output has been lost because of the poor quality of Benin's filing systems. The
ICR completion mission was unable to identify any evidence of impact of TA personnel in terms
of skills development of their Beninese counterparts.
11.   The most useful components of the TA project were the studies, strategy papers and public
sector audits carried out by short term consultants in the context of the first, second and third
adjustment programs. A study identified structural reforms and other measures necessary to
improve the competitiveness of Benin's economy as a result of the devaluation of the CFA franc.
Organizational audits of five key Ministries2 provided the basis for institutional reformns to be
implemented in the context of the FY94 Economic Management project.
12.   In other words, while technical assistance and training achieved very little, most of the
other less ambitious project components were much more useful to the government and the Bank.
Eventually, the TA project proved to be a flexible operational instrument which helped the Bank
and the government improve their knowledge and understanding of key macroeconomic and
sectoral issues. When the government, in 1986, established a committee responsible for preparing
the first structural adjustment program, the TA project financed several activities viewed as
necessary to identify policy and institutional reforms to be included in the program. Although the
Performance Report of the first structural adjustment program concludes that its results were
mrixed, the program marks the beginning of a series of macroeconomic and sectoral reforms that
had a positive impact on the country's public sector management and economic performance.
13.   Overall, less than half of the project components (in terms of share of total project costs)
produced useful outputs. Long term technical assistance for institutional development had
virtually no impact. In other words, a much smaller operation financing a wide variety of specific
activities (audits, special studies, macroeconomic and sectoral strategy papers, strategy
discussions, workshops, special training programs), for which there was a demand in the country,
could have achieved most of the benefits actually derived from the TA project.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   The general insecurity that prevailed during the political transition from 1988 to 1991
slowed down project implementation and weakened the proposed institutional development effort.
2     Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydraulics, Ministry of Industry and Small and Medium businesses,
Ministry of Public Works and Transport and Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Affairs.



- 5 -
15.   Frequent changes in government personnel, including project coordinators, also affected
project execution. Newly appointed project coordinators often did not have the skills necessary to
handle many different project activities, government departments, TA advisers and donor
agencies. Overwhelmed by routine administrative tasks and procurement procedures on behalf of
weak implementing agencies, project coordinators could not perform their principal role of
coordinating and monitoring training and technical assistance.
16.   Delays in recruiting TA  personnel defeated the coherence of the overall technical
assistance program.3 Eventually the macroeconomist recruited under the project assumed the role
of project coordinator and, therefore, was unable to deliver expected outputs in the field of
macroeconomic analysis.
17.   Existing institutional set ups were a major obstacle to improving economic management
processes particularly when they involved several government agencies. The specific functions of
individual agencies and procedures for inter-agency coordination were not clearly defined. The
mandate and the structure of the Ministry of Planning, a vital agency for the TA project, was
inadequate. The Ministry was unable to coordinate preparation of sound development strategies
and coherent public investment programs. It was not equipped to monitor ongoing projects.
Finally, the government had to create a new institution - a Special Inter-ministerial Committee - to
handle preparation of the first structural adjustment program in 1986.
18.   Information systems were also inadequate. Lack of established procedures for the
circulation of information, and poor filing systems, prevented potential users to have access to
studies, reports and other project outputs produced by TA personnel. During the ICR mission, the
government was unable to find copies of key reports produced under the project.
19.   Weak civil service management systems also influenced the project's performance.
Appointments of agency managers were not coordinated with ongoing programs aimed at
strengthening the agencies. No significant effort was made to identify training needs and to
integrate training assignments into career development plans. Often staff trained under the project
were appointed to positions unrelated to the training they had received.
20.   Managers of implementing agencies were not properly briefed about the project's
objectives and procedures. TA personnel was often used for activities which were not in
accordance with their terms of reference. Lack of secretarial support, computers and equipment
was also a major problem for many long-term advisers, with the notable exception of FAC-
financed experts (French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation) assigned to the Customs Department.
3    A major feature of the project was the coherence and the coordination of various activities to be performned by project-financed long-termr
advisers.



- 6 -
Directly supervised by the French resident mission in Cotonou, FAC-financed advisers were
always provided with the logistical support needed to perform their functions.
21.   A combination of the lack of a well prepared training program before the beginning of
project implementation and the poor performance of TA personnel responsible for training
resulted in a delay in project implementation and affected the overall quality of the project's
training component. This training component was restructured in 1992. Emphasis was placed on
short-term training in statistics and accounting for the Statistics Department. About 40 staff
members of Statistics were trained under the project.
22.   The project also suffered from the lack of continuity in Bank supervision. New staff was
unaware of views expressed and recommendations made by previous "supervisors". In addition
the response of headquarters staff to government requests for comments/non-objection was not
always as prompt and diligent as desirable.
23.   A particular feature of the TA project was that it was cofinanced by the Bank and four
other bilateral and multilateral donors. Coordination between donors proved to be a difficult task.
Differences in procedures and policies complicated project management and implementation. A
disagreement between the Bank and the United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation
and Development (UNTCD) weakened project supervision. Because UNTCD was responsible for
assisting the project coordinator, it challenged the right of the Bank to supervise the project and
receive detailed accounts on project expenditures. The problem was eventually resolved when the
UNDP replaced UNTCD as cofinancier of the project.
24.   The resident mission made a useful contribution to the project. The review suggests that
the mission made effective use of some of the project's output to influence government officials
and stimulate their interest in policy analysis and eventually policy reforms. In 1991, the resident
mission assumed full responsibility for the supervision of the project and played a leading role in
re-orienting project activities in support of ongoing structural adjustment programs.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The achievements of the TA project are limited and are not sustainable. The modest
contribution of the project to the design and implementation of three structural adjustment
programs will have a lasting impact if these programs mark the beginning of long-term
improvements in the country's economic performance. Similarly the audits of government
agencies were used in the preparation of an Economic Management project which was approved
by the Executive Directors in FY94. The design of the Economic Management project took into
account lessons of the TA project's experience. There is no evidence of long-term benefits that
may have been derived from the other project components.



-7-
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   The Bank performance at the project identification, preparation and appraisal stage
was unsatisfactory. A Bank economic mission in 1982 identified a number of critical economic
management and long-term priority development issues which needed to be addressed by the
government and the Bank. The mistake was to conclude that long-term technical assistance could
achieve significant capacity-building and institutional development objectives considering the
country's political and institutional environment in the early 1 980s. The character of the regime in
place did not permit consideration of significant reforms of existing institutional structures and
economic management processes. A political revolution, not a group of long-term advisers,
eventually changed the country's attitudes and economic policies. Training was perhaps a more
feasible short-term objective, but not on-the-job in a highly inadequate institutional environment.
In addition, the project's preparation work did not include preparation of a training program. A
well-prepared training program, based on a competent assessment of training demand and training
needs, would have helped identify institutional and other conditions necessary to make the training
program relevant and effective. In this context, withdrawing EDI experts from the Bank
preparation team because of budget constraints was an unfortunate decision. EDI's experience in
training would have been a major asset for project preparation.
27.   In view of Benin's situation at the time of project preparation and appraisal, the Bank
should have pursued more limited institutional development objectives. Extensive discussions with
the government and future project beneficiaries about the role, performance and priorities of
existing economic management institutions would have shown that the government and the Bank
did not have a common institutional development agenda. A comprehensive technical assistance
and institutional reform program was therefore unrealistic.
28.   The rationale for the Bank decision to go ahead with the project in FY85 was the
assumption that economic and political conditions can evolve rapidly. Sudden transformations in
the country's environment could offer opportunities for policy and institutional dialogue which the
Bank should not miss. Indeed, Benin's example shows that sudden political changes during project
implementation are possible and require a rapid response by the Bank. In such circumstances the
availability of a flexible operational instrument, like an ongoing TA project, can be particularly
useful. In this regard, the Benin TA project proved to be an extremely valuable instrument during
the political transition, when the country was beginning to understand the need for change and
sought Bank assistance for defining the most urgent economic management and institutional
reforms that should be initiated in the context of structural adjustment programs. However, as
indicated in paragraph 13, there was no need for a large technical assistance project to take
advantage of these opportunities. A much smaller operation could have financed all the audits,
studies, workshops and training programs necessary to analyze and begin to address
macroeconomic, sectoral and institutional issues identified by the government and the Bank.



-8-
29.    The project design did not take into account important factors which were already known
when the project was appraised and had a strong negative impact on project implementation.
Parts I and III of the appraisal report accurately described most of the constraints that affected
institutional capacities. Nevertheless, Part IV described project objectives that largely ignored
these constraints. In addition, the complexity of the project was not adequately recognized.
Managing a multi-component, multi-agency and multi-donor project was obviously beyond the
capacity of the Ministry of Planning.
30.    The Bank's supervision performance was also unsatisfactory. The overall supervision
input fell short of the Bank's commitment, formally expressed in the President's Report, to provide
intensive supervision.4 Economists and Country Officers were responsible for supervising the TA
project. Supervision missions never included training/institutional development specialists. The
President's report also promised that the project would be jointly supervised by its cofinanciers.
There is no evidence in the Files that joint supervision missions were ever organized.
31.    Ten of the fourteen supervision missions were staffed by staff who had never been
associated with previous missions concerning the Benin TA project. A review of supervision
reports shows that new reports seldom reflected the findings and the concerns of previous
missions. There was an obvious lack of consistency and continuity in the analyses and
recommendations of successive supervision missions. The Bank does not appear to have taken
actions to remedy non-compliance to project covenants by the borrower.5
32.    In 1991, the resident mission assumed full responsibility for project supervision (and
became the task manager for the project). The mission, however, was never provided with
additional resources to carry out its new functions.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.    The borrower's project preparation performance was generally unsatisfactory. The
government produced a few reports and documents which alluded to major institutional problems
but did not propose adequate solutions. These reports did not reflect the need to coordinate the
project's design with the country's economic management and institutional development
objectives. The review of preparation reports seems to indicate that the government preferred a
piece-meal approach to technical assistance and training rather than the more comprehensive
design recommended by the Bank. With hindsight it appears that the government was probably
right considering political and institutional constraints prevailing at that time.
Out ef'80 rffweeks alocaled to ipervisu n zmring poject imnplementation, only 12 stdaffweeks wee in the field, excluding time spent by the
resident nission in support of headquarters' supervision missions.
Only one supervision report contained mandatory infonnation on legal covenants. Until 1991, performance ratings in the supervision
reports did not adequately reflect that the project major objectives were comproniised and that implementation was unsatisfactory.



-9 -
34.   The borrower's performance during project implementation was clearly deficient. Key
covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were not complied with. The Ministry of
Planning did not reorganize the Directorate responsible for public investment programming, as
promised during negotiations. The government did not make the agreed contribution to the
project financing in the form of additional staff in support of technical assistance personnel. There
is no record of systematic evaluations of TA experts by their superiors. No effort was made to
ensure continuity in the management of the project. Both the officers in charge of project
coordination and the counterparts to TA personnel changed frequently. The Ministry of Planning,
which was responsible for project management, did not take corrective actions to improve the
performance of TA personnel. Training programs and their impact on the performance of the
trainees were not monitored.6 Despite recommendations in the report of auditors, project-financed
vehicles and computers were not identified. In other words the government's commitment to the
project was weak at all stages of the project's cycle.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   The outcome of the TA project is unsatisfactory. While the project produced valuable
outputs in terms of statistical and financial data, macroeconomic analyses and policy
recommendations, the project's institutional development objectives were not met. As indicated in
paragraphs 13 and 28, a much smaller operation could have produced most of the limited benefits
actually derived from the project.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   A US$5.2 million Economic Management (Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique,
PAGE) project was appraised in 1993 and approved by the Executive Directors in 1994. The new
project aims at improving the structure and operations of the same agencies that were expected to
benefit from the TA project. The design of the Economic Management project avoids some of the
most obvious shortcomings of the TA project. It uses only short-term technical assistance,
drawing mostly from local or regional resources.7 A national training center competes with other
training institutions to meet training needs which were evaluated before project became effective.
A recently created national capacity-building committee matches identified training requirements
in the civil service with existing training programs in the country. There is a clear agreement
between the government and the Bank on the type of institutional reforms' to be carried out in the
context of the project. A detailed training program was prepared and discussed with beneficiaries
6    During the ICR mnission, the goverunent was unable to indicate who had received training and which positions were occupied by the
trainees before and after the training prograns.
7    TThe project was recently restructured and the long-tern TA component was eliminated.
Based on audits carried out during the TA project.



- 10 -
before project appraisal. The Civil Service Department will update personnel files, now linked to
the payroll file, and will take into consideration training received in future decisions concerning
appointments and promotions.
37.   The project was restructured in early 1995 to improve beneficiary participation at all
stages of project implementation. The main focus of project activities will be on realistic economic
management objectives. To correct the shortcomings as regards the training component of the TA
project, the restructured PAGE provides for a detailed training needs assessment of all staff to be
trained under the project as well as a monitoring system of the training obtained. A detailed
project implementation manual specifies performance indicators to be monitored during project
supervision. Continuity is being maintained in supervision which is carried out by the Resident
Mission.
L   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The review of the TA project in Benin confirms lessons derived from similar stand-alone
technical assistance projects:
(a)    a strong political commitment of the government is essential to the success of the
project;
(b)   managers and staff of the agencies assisted by the project should participate actively in
the design of the operation;
(c)   the project's objectives and design should be based on careful analysis of structures,
operational processes and skills requirements of the institutions concemed. Where
institutional capacity is weak, project objectives should be modest;
(d)   flexibility in adapting the project to changing circumstances is required;
(e)   adequate attention should be accorded to project management and coordination issues,
particularly for projects involving several agencies;
(f)    monitoring of project implementation and evaluation of the perfomiance of long term
TA advisers should be based on detailed implementation plans and performance
criteria. In fact, in line with the Afiica Region's guidelines for long term TA, such
assistance should no longer be provided, except under special circumstances with very
tight pre-conditions;
(g)   the Bank should allocate adequate resources to project supervision; supervision
missions should include an appropriate skills mix of economists/country officers and



institutional development specialists. Furthermore, a minimum of continuity in project
supervision staff is essential; and
(h)   training should only be provided on the basis of detailed training needs assessments and
continuous monitoring of the trainees, including the provision of follow-up training.
39.   The Bank does not seem to have a comparative advantage when it comes to planning and
monitoring the employment of long term technical assistance. Bilateral agencies appear to be
better equipped to handle resident advisers, as evidenced by the better performance of the FAC-
financed component in the context of the Benin TA project.
40.   Experience of the TA project also shows that some of the most important project
achievements did not really need long-term technical assistance and could have been obtained with
the help of a smaller, flexible operation financing a variety of short-term activities, including
strategy papers, audits, special studies, workshops and also training. This is the way many other
TA projects were effectively restructured at the end of project implementation when all the long
term advisers had already left the country. Eager to improve their knowledge and understanding
of specific macroeconomic, sectoral and institutional issues, the Bank and the government used
the undisbursed balance to promote a number of specific activities which proved to be much more
valuable than the original project components.



- 12 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
CREDIT 1530-BEN
PART 1I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial       Partial       Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                                                     I
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                                         I
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                      .1
Other Social Objectives                                                             I
Environmental Objectives                                                            I
Public Sector Management                                          .1
Private Sector Development                                                         VI
B. Project Sustainability         Likely                 UnUkely                 Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                   Highly
satisfactory        Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                                                                     V
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                                         'I
Supervision                                                                        /
D. Borrower Performance                Highly
satisfactory        Satisfactory              Ddicient
Preparation                                                                         /
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                                                 I
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly                                          Elighly
satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    nusatisfactory
.



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Cradit Titi.              ~~Purps                   Year Of   Stts
_________________________                           ~~~Approval _ _ _ _
Public Enterprise Sector     To assist the Govenment in the            1987     Closed
Rehabilitation (Credit 1748-  rehabilitation of its public and parapublic
BEN)                         enterprise.
SAL I (Credit 2023-BEN)      To support a fundamnental reorientation of  1989   Closed
the economy away from state intervention
towards greater reliance on market forces.
SAL II (Credit 2283-BEN)     To support the second phase of the        1991     Closed
Government's Structural Adjustment
Program.
Projet d'Appui a la Gestion  Economic Management Support Project       1994    On-going
Economique (Credit 2552-BEN)
SAL HI (Credit 2727-BEN)     To support the implementation of key      1995    On-going
measures designed to strengthen the supply
response to the devaluation of the CFA franc
and to consolidate reforms initiated since
1990.                 ,,, ..                        -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steosi i Proiect Cycle           Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                June 1982                June 1982
Preparation                                            June 1982
Appraisal                     December 1983            December 1983
Negotiations                  October 1984             October 1984
Board Presentation                                     December 13, 1984
Signig                                                 February 28, 1985
Effectiveness                 June 1985                September 13, 1985
ProjectCompletion             March 31, 1991           March31, 1994
Credit Closing                ___________November 4, 1994



- 15 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(UJSS million)
FY8S   FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91 I FY92  FY93                   FY94
Appraisal
Estimate             0.5    1.6    2.7    3.6    4.2    4.6    5.0         -      -            -
Actual               0      0.4    0.9    1.4    2.4    3.0    3.8    4.4    5.1               5.4
Actual as % of
Estimate             0%     25%    33%    39%    57%    65%    76%         -      -            -
Date of final
Disbursement                                                                            November 4, 1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key IZplementation Indicators in President's Report     Estimated               Actual
Planning and Project Preparation
1. Strengthen mnacroeconomic analysis                      May 1988               June 19881
2. Improve project analysis and selection capability        May 1987              May 19902
3. Strengthen link between investment programs and budget   May 1987              May 19903
4. Improve industrial project preparation and supervision   May 1987              May 19874
5. Develop livestock sector program                        June 1987              Not implemented
Public Finance Management
6. Improve the operations of the CAA                        March 1986            January 1990'
7. Improve budget structure                                 June 1986             Not implemented
8. Improve the operations of the Treasury                   March 1986            Not implemented
9. Strengthen generation of public finance statistics and related  January 1987   Not implemented
indicators
10. Evaluate customs operations                            January 1987           Not implemented
Statistics
11. Improve basic statistics produced                      December 1988          February 19906
Training
12. Assessment of training needs in key ministries and agencies  August 1988      January 19877
and design of training program for counterpart staff
13. Improve skills in project preparation and supervision  June 1987              N/A s
14. Improve skills for business accounting                  December 1987         N/A
15. Improve skills in tax auditing                         December 1986          N/A
I   TA was laid off due to incompetence; as a result objective was not met.
2   TA resigned after 1 year due to bad working conditions; as a result objective was not met.
3   Objective was partially achieved.
4   Objective was not met.
s   Objective was partially achieved.
6   Objective partially achieved.
7   Objective was partially achieved.
8   Not available



Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation
KVey Opeh  Ini  catorsit       Esdnmed TA Experts             Estaftd Re__ts               Actu  TA Experts               Atual Rendla                    Cornf t
PriM * Repet                      (Mf)                                                        I::::
::__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            Inpu b                     :: ,_    _ ;_::__ _              (ha)              _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _    _ :_:
Part :A Planning and Project
Preparation
1. Stegthen m    _acroeconomcs   Macreconomist           1. Improved analysis and      Macroconomist                      Target not met         Expert was laid off due to
analysis                     (36 mr/mr)                   projections to produce 'Notes    (36 m/m)                                                inc _ee  Expert
de Conjuncture" quarterly                                                               assued the role of
-i  o  conwha
ainded of Task sagned
2. Improve project analysis  Project Analyst              2. Introduction of formal     Projec Analyst Expert (12    Actual target wa not iet      Expert rigned after I year
and selection caability      (24 m/m)                     project analysis and selection    m/rm)                    Howvvre following were            bad
imiplaenuted:                cnkos
*    Analysis of the
situation.
*    P-Hnazy preparation
for orgnizing projects
analy*is and
* Organization of project
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   cyclc.
3. Strne link bdween         Investment Prgrmmer           3. Established procedure     Pro          Expsat          Target w  partiml   etL
inveshment prograns and      (24 m/n beginning 6/85)       linking invesment program   (24 m/ni, Mardc 19S6-June     The following were
budget                                                     with anTent budget           1990)                           itnpl    in v
* Set-up investment
p rmgan over seveal
* Elaborated a metbod for
m St-ups technique for
program baalwe
exaaatim aNW
*    Prepard a computer
manual for use in
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~training  prograns.
4. Inmprve industrial project  Industrial Advisor (24 rn/mn  4. Formal industrial project  (24 rn/rn)                Targe not suet
prepaation and supervision  ________ preparation procedures                            _______
5. Develop livestock sector  Livestock Advisory Services    5. Livestock sector strategy  August 86 - November 87    Target not meL                Expert's work and finlu report
program                      (36 m/m)                                                   (15 m/m)                                                   did not meet component
objective



operating Judietors In          Estimat  TA Experts            Estuaa Resus                 Actual TA _pert                Act1 Rels                      C      _
Predsdut's Rqert                  (11mW)                                                      Inpub
_b                 _)                                                                                     .
Part: B Public Finance
Managmrent
6. hnprove the operations of    (i) Acontng Advisor (6    6. Adaptation of CAA's        2 experts were rcruited for I   Tsget w  not achieved.     The computa zaion of the
the CAA                     mr/n)                           counting to suit National   year. Computer expert and                                  National public debt
Acudting plan                Accuning expert              The following were           mn_nemet was n
(ii) Computer Syse           Cmputerization of national    (12 rn/m)                    implemented:                 achieved.
Analyst (9 n/rn)             public debt management                                     *   A diagosis study ofthe
operations                                                     CAA.
*   A dafting of a manual
for accouting
procedures; and
*    In fomation system for
CAA
7. Improve budget structure    Public Finance System      7. Introduction of uniform    Expert recruited from the    Target wa achieved
Specialist (12 m/n)          budget nomenclature           nternational Monetary Fund    Introduced budget
(IMF) for 2 years            nomenclature
(24 rn/m)r
S. Improve the operations of   (i) Accountant             8 Revision of accounting      Two experts were recruited   Targt not achieved            The expats left the country
the Treasury                 (ii) Computer Specialist     procedures and regulations,   under FAC flnancing          No activity                   and did not accomplished the
(9 mrlm)                     updating and computerization                                                            task.
of Treasury accounts
9. Strenghen generation of   Economic Statistician        9. Procedures for regular                                  Target not achieved           The experts left the country
public finance statistics and  specialized in public finance  production of public finance                           No activity                   and did not accomplished the
related indicators           (18 m/mn)                    data and economic indicators                                                            task.
10. Evaluate customs         Short-tem consultants        10. Genral diagnosis ofthe    Implemented Under FAC        T     t     partaBy
operations                   (6 m/m)                      'Direction des Douanes"and    financing                     arget ba   iall
inter alia evaluation ofthe                               a         foploenng:
custofms collectionsthfooig
*    Evaluation of customs
duties;
*    A study oftaniff
protection systen; and
the taxation system;
*   A stdy of pricing and
price fixing; and
 Audit of the customs
depaitment- and a
reform of the custom
sYtimf



Key  Opeting _adicotorm in     I aUmatd TA EzPes                                                                            R0 Reot  Acta TA Ezpet*  ACta DaRftu
Part: C: Statiatica
11. Improve basic statistics  National Accots and odher    11 Improved procedur  for  2 Expeat                     Target parpaly acheved
produced by the National    mu ro-datistics specialists (36   production of national  (24 m/m)                     The prodution of nationl
Institute of Economics and  o  r)                         aer mum dat                                                      was pa-. iy
Saiical Analysis (INSAE)                                                                                           irroved_
Expeditu  Survey Advisors   12 Household eenitr                                       No record of what was
(60 m/m)                    survey ad results                                         actually achieved
Demographer (IS n/rm)        13 Analysis and publication    N/A                       T u        a    eved
of 1979 census and 1983                                  The analyis and publication
survey results                            ~~~~~~of the 1979 cimia was
achieved; hower, 1983
suvey rults was partially
achieved
Part: D - Training
14. Asment of tining        Training advisor (I  n/rm)   14. Assemet of taining      N/A                          Targd wa pardaiy mat by    The expert's recommended
needs in key ministries and                              needs of Goverment                                        hmplenenting the folowing:   seminar and short-term
design of training program for                            agencies. Implementation of                                   Evalusfion of           tra Oining were not
counrput staff                                            specific training progms for                                                          inip anat  med
Benin's profesionals working
as cuterpw  with the                                     *   Seminar on staff
technical assistants                                          development in the
)Dpatmn des
Etuks et de la
Programmation (DEP)"'
*   Organization of field
trip to Lom6, Togo by
senior staff of BCP.
15. Improving skills in     In-service training program in   15. Increased projed analysis                         Target not met
projeet preWration and       project preparation, analysis    capability                                           No Activity
supervision                  and supervision
16. Improving skills in     Training program in business    16. Improved accounting                                Target not met               Staff did not return to Benin
business aouting             accouning                    skills and improved                                      No Activity
accunting procedures in
public and private entrpriss
17. Improved skills in tax  Experinced tax auditor with    17. Two tax auditing brigades                           Target  t met
audhing                     training capabilities (6 m/m)    of about five members each.                           No Activity
Incased Govenmnent
capability to collect taxe



Table 6B
Fellowships for Training Abroad
Estbudtd Result          Actl Couwes D ple               Length of Counr/ nd                         Comments
eased                          Places
Grduate studies in       Business Administaion           2 years - Montreal
econonics, financal
analysis, and statistics
Agricultural Economics          2 years - France
Macroeconomics Modeling         NA
Planning and Evaluation of Projects  2 years - France
Planning                        9 months - Senegal
Enterprise Management            I year                      Candidate failed the final examination
Accounting                      2 years - France
Taxes                           2 years - France
Specialty in Public Administration    10 months
Speciaty in charge of Personnel  28 days
ManagemenK
Specialty in Administration     10 days
Management
Specialty in Accounting         17 days
Specialty in Managemern and     10 days
Administration
Specialty in Banking            6 months
Specialty in Banking and         I year
Collection
Specialty in National Commission    3 days
of verification of goods'      a
ESTIMATED STUDENT YEAR    12
No records of trainees sent abroad have return to the
ACTUAL STUDENT YEARS            14.90                        country, employed or re-employed as originally
aIreedi
hitodued during project irnplementation



- 20 -
Table 6C
Summary of Estimate and Actual Technical Assistance Provided
(in staff months by component)
Component                     Estimated                 Actual
Planning and Project preparation          138                      111
Public Finance Management                 63                        60
Statistics                                114                       0
Total                                     315                      171
Actual % of staff months used  _                                   54%



-21 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose as Defined       Status             Impact of Study
at appraisal/Redefined                                              l
1. Audit sur organisation de cinq (5)     Audit of the MEMH.        Completed      Lead to action plan
ministeres                                MCT, MIPME, MTPT and                     implemented under the FY94
MTEAS'                                   Economic Management
Programs
2. Conseillers Chargds de l'amdlioration de la   N/A2               N/A            N/A
gestion du personnel de l'Etat
3. Convention etude et prestation du personnel  N/A                 N/A            N/A
4. Etude du sous-secteur de l'e1evage et  Liquidation of selected   Completed      Consultants recommendation
I'etablissement d'une strategie et d'un   Banks.                                   was not implemented
Programme pour son Ddveloppement
5. Etude de Prd-inspection COTECNA (Pre-                                           A pre-shipment inspection
Inspection Company)                                                                company in Benin has been
maintained and customs has
improved
6. Etude sur la Competitivitd de L'Economie   The impact of CFA franc    Completed  Lead to action plan of reforms
du Benin                                  devaluation                              under SAL III
I   MEMH = Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydraulics; MCT = Ministry of Commerce and Tourism; MIPME = Ministiy
of Industry and Small and Medium Businesses; MTPT = Ministry of Public Works and Transport and MTEAS = Ministry
of Labor, Employment and Social Affairs.
2   N/A = Not available



Table 8A: Project Costs
ApprAisa                                   Actual
Estimate                       ~~~~(USSM)
Loa          Foreign        TOWal          Local        Foreign        Total
Itcm:000  C01:::::   ::          osts      : Co         :           :             :co:C,::sts  coot  Cost
1. Planning and Project Preparation  0.3          1.4            1.7           0.4            1.5           1.9
2. Public Finance Management        0.2           0.7            0.9           0.0            0.0           0.0
3. Statistics                       0.2           0.6            0.8           0.1            0.6           0.7
4. Training                         0.4           0.7            1.1           0.4            0.3           0.7
5. Fellowships                                    0.4            0.4           0.7            1.0           1.7
6. Activities to be identified      0.2            1.0           1.2           0.1            0.7           0.8
7. Equipment and Vehicles                         0.6            0.6           0.3            0.0           0.3
TOTAL                               1.3            5.4           6.7           2.0            4.1           6.1



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                   Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local         Foreign        Total            Local        Foreign            Total
Source                    Costs           Costs                          Costs         Costs
IDA                          0.9            4.1            5.0             1.0             2.4             3.4
IJNDP                        0.3            1.4            1.7            0.3              1.4             1.7
FAC                          0.2            0.5            0.7             0.2             0.5             0.7
EDF                          0.2            0.4            0.8                             0.1             '0.1
UNFPA                         -             0.2            0.2              -              0.2             0.2
Government                   0.3             -             0.3             0.1              -              0.1
TOTAL                       1.9            6.6            8.7             1.6             4.6             6.2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit   C:wfant Premet  Originl   Revised
A0gww     t      : type       0 s ts  i: hulfilh t i:h|:::t :Deserlinlon .1 :tet                                             Comnenb
Sction   _ _ _ _ _    ~~~date    date                                                                           _  _   _  _   _  _
3.01 (a)    5       CP                             The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set   No comments
forth in schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through its ministries and agencies referred to in Schedule 2 in this
Agreement under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Plan and
Statistics (MPS) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate planning, training, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
3.01(b)    5        CP                             To assist MWS in discharging its responsibility under paragraph (a) above, the  No comments
Borrower shall: (i) maintain within MPS a project unit, headed by the
Direceur de la Coopkration Tecknique as Project Coordinator, including an
accountant, administrative officer and a secretary, and assisted by a training
adviser, and (ii) maintain in position four Chiefs of Operations, who under the
direction of the Project Coordinator, shall be responsible for the
implementation of Parts A, B.l, B.2, and C of the Project, respectively.  _
3.02(a)    5        CP                            In order to assist the Borrower in canrying out the Project, the Borrower shall  Due to weak management
employ consultants and experts, including, nter a&, those consultants and    and administrative
experts listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, whose qualifications,  difficulties linked to a
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the  multi-donor environment,
Association and such consultants and experts to be financed out of the proceeds only eight advisers were
of the Credit shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures    recruited instead of
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of  eighteen envisaged in the
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing    project
Agency published by the Bank in August 1981.
3.02.(b)    5        CP                            Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section and    No comments
subject to the provisions of said paragraph, the Borrower shall employ
specialized consulting firms or agencies, satisfactory to the Association, to
assist it in the hiring and monitoring of consultants and experts for, inter alia,
Parts A.l and 2, B and C of the Project.
3.02.(c)    5       CP                             The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to facilitate the work of the    Most of the experts did not
consultants, experts, consulting finms or agencies employed for the Project in   serve their full term due to
the performance of their services thereof and make available to them all  poor working conditions,
informnation required for such work.                               and disagreements with the
Government



Credit   Covenant Present  Original   Revised
Agreement   type    status  fulfillment fulfillment                      Description of covenant                             Comments
Section                       date       date
3.02(d)    5        CP                             Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, as well as   No evidence that it had
the EDF, the Republic of France acting through FAC, the UNDP and the  been complied with or not
UNFPA, to the extent that they shall be concerned, the Borrower shall not
amend or waive any of the terms and conditions of employment of the
consultants, experts, consulting finns or agencies referred to in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section, or grant any material extension of time or any approval
of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to any substitution of
personnel of such consultants, experts, consulting firns or agencies, or
suspend payments under, or terminate, any contract with such consultants,
experts, consulting firns or agencies.
3.02.(e)    9       NC                             At the end of the first year of employment of each resident consultant and  No records on the
expert and upon completion of tasks performed by short-term consultants and   evaluation of consultants'
experts, the Borrower, acting through the Project Coordinator, shall make an    performance
evaluation of the performance of each such consultant and expert and exchange
view thereon with the Association.
3.03.(a)    5       CP                             The Borrower shall assign to each resident consultant or expert before arrival at Was not fully complied
his duty station local counterpart staff with qualifications satisfactory to the  with due to high staff
Association and an adequate number of support staff.               turnover
3.03.(b)    5       NC                             The Borrower shall appoint two public finance statisticians to work full time as  Same as above
counterparts to the resident economic statistician specialized in public finance
under Part B. I (iii) of the Project.
3.04.      5        CP                             The Borrower undertakes to reorganize and thereafter maintain the Bureau  Same as above
Central des Projets of the MPS referred to in Part A, I (iii) of the Project with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and with qualified
staff in adequate numbers.
3.05       9         C                             Before undertaking any training program under Part D of the Project, the  Project was reshaped to
Borrower, acting through the Project Coordinator, shall furnish to the  focus on short-term
Association, for its approval, a detailed proposal for each program, including a  training
reasoned justification, plan of execution, and list of supporting services to be
provided thereof
3.06(a)    9        C                              Before awarding any fellowship under Part E of the Project, the Borrower,  No comments
acting through the Project Coordinator, shall furnish to the Association for its
approval the qualifications of the candidates for such fellowship.
3.06.(b)    5       CP                             Upon successful completion of their studies, the Borrower shall employ  No evidence that
fellowship recipients in the positions for which they shall have been trained and fellowship recipients have
require them to serve at least three years in said positions.       been employed



Credit   covenvan  Preset  Original   Revied
Agre lmt   type    status  fulffllmnt fuffiflihent                        Description of covenant                            Comments
;Section   :         ::::      date       date  i: ______:_:_; _;_::                ________________:__i_:_;_:                         _ :
3.07.      9        C                              Before undertaking any technical assistance, study or training activity under    No comments
Part F of the Project, the Borrower, acting through the Project Coordinator,
shall prepare and furish to the Association for its approval a detailed proposal
for each such assistance, study or activity, including a reasoned justification,
plan of execution and list of supporting services to be provided therefor.
3.08.(a)    4       C                              The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the  No comments
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards, incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indennity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
3.08(b)    5        CP                             The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of No evidence. Vehicles and
the Credit to be used exclusively for the purpose of the project.  personal computers not
identified as Government
property
3.09(a)    9        CD                             The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, No comments           o
specifications, reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.09.(b)    I        CP                            The Borrower: (i) shall rnaintain records and procedures adequate to record    Computer and training
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be center are poorly designed
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds and ill-equipped
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concening the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
3.09.(c)    9        CP                            Without limitation or restriction to the generality of the provision of paragraphs No comments
(a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall cause the Project Coordinator: (i) to
prepare and, commencing July 1, 1985 and thereafter, not later than December
I of each year, furnish to the Association for its review and approval proposed
annual work plans and budgets for the execution of the Project; (ii) not later
than July 31 and December 31 of each year, to prepare or have prepared a
_  semiannual progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association



Credit   Covenant Present  Original   Revised
Agreement   type    status  fulfillment fulfillment                            Description of covenant                                 Comments
Section                         date        date                                                            _                                          l
shall reasonably request, on each part of the Project showing, inter alia,
training results, policies developed and institutional changes produced and
expenditures made to date, and review each such report with the Chiefs of
Operations; and (iii) promptly thereafter, to furnish each such report to the
Association.
3.09.(d)    5         C                               Upon the award by the Borrower of the contract for goods or services to be  No comments
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract
was awarded and the contract price
3.09(e)     9         CP                              Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than six  Pending audit report
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
perfornance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
._______    _______     ________   purposes of the  Credit.
4.01 (a)    I         CP                               The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts and   No comments
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
4.01 (b)    I         CP                               Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to Pending audit report
be maintained separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure; (ii) retain until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
4.01. (c)    I        CP                               The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and    No comments
(b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as.



Credit   Covennt Pmet  Original    Resd.                                                                                                          
Agement    type          status  fulfllment flfillment                                Description of covenant                                      Comments
Section                             date         date   __::_:_:: _                                             _     _:__                            _
the Association shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information conceming
said accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                     8   = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               11.  = Sectoral or cross-scw al budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                        allocation
5.     Management aspects ofthe project or execuling     12.  = Sectoral or roas-secoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                    action
6. =  Enviromental covenarts                             13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
S. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with aflter delay
CP - complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



- 29 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of Project Cycle               Actual Staff Weeb
Through Appraisal                                      N/A
Appraisal-Board                                        N/A
Board-Effectiveness                                    N/A
Supervision                                            81.4
Completion                                             15.2
TOTAL                                                  96.6
N/A = Not available due to the re-organization of the region.



- 30 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Sac f PoetCY*1             MoNf6fNiYe        Numiber of         asnSpcaid
Persons           Field           Staff ;Skils
,j,0X,~~_ _                         _ _     _ _ _ _ _ __f-j4       0f  : 00 ff'     t  f        R epr sented l
Through Appraisal                                                         N/A        LO; ECO
Appraisal through Board Approval        83-84            N/A              N/A        LO; ECO
Board Approval through                  84-85            N/A              N/A        N/A
Effectiveness
Supervision (13 missions)           9/1985 - 8/94         14              58*        LO/ECO;CO
Completion                              5/95               1               19        ECO
N/A = Not available due to the re-organization of the department.
s From 8/6/91-9/30/93 project supervision was conducted by the Resident Mission (RM). RM did not specify~ number days
spent on the project.
Staff skills: CO = Country Officer, ECO = Economist; LO = Loan Officer



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX A:
COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



Appendix A
Page I of 3
AIDE-MEMOIRE
(English Summary)
I.    The purpose of this Aide-Memoire and a meeting with the Government officials is to allow
the Government to review and comment on the ICR before the mission departs to headquarters.
A meeting is schedule with the Institut National de la Statistique et de l'Analyse, Ministere des
Finances et de l'Economie and Ministere du Plan et de la Restructuration Economique. The
meeting is on May II, 1995 at the Ministry of Plan at 4 p.m.
A.    Project Implementation
2.    Project effectiveness was delayed by the Ministry of Plan's (MOP) reluctance to proceed
with the reform of the Bureau Central des Projects (BCP) as agreed during negotiations.
Disagreement between the co-financiers/executing agencies, United Nations agency - the
Department of Technical Cooperation and Development and IDA over IDA's right to supervise
the project and receive detailed accounts on expenditure also delayed the project in becoming
effective.
3.    After the project became effective, political turmoil in the country jeopardized the project
progress. In mid 1988 three years into implementation, there were Military coup attempts and a
series of strikes led by teachers which spread to the public sector and paralyzed the economy.
During this period, Benin's labor force was severely affected, hence it crippled the enthusiasm that
was generated among the various ministries when the project became effective. The first
Structural Adjustment Program (SALI) was implemented during 1990 - 1991 to help the
Government restructure and streamline key government ministries. The major reforms at that
time affected the project in several ways as five project coordinators replaced one another in
quick succession. The first of the five project coordinators was then re-assigned to a different part
of the Ministry. Once again the project lost its momentum as the new coordinator had little
knowledge of the project.
B.    Project Achievements
4.    The objectives of the project were only partially achieved and limited success was
recorded in several areas. Although project objectives responded to Benin's immediate need at
that time to set up the ground work for the implementation of the SAL, results were less than
anticipated in project design (see appendix C).
5.    Overall the technical assistance support provided under the project suffered from:
(a)   persistent absence of coordination between the TA experts and Government
officials, whom the former were expected to coach;



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
(b)   lack of mechanism and agreed action plan for interaction between TA experts and
Government technicians on the one hand and policy makers on the other;
(c)   inadequate definition of tasks and roles of Government technicians and TA
experts;
(d)   the transfer of technical know-how, this major role, assigned to TA experts, was
ill-defined and no performance indicators were set to measure the extent to which
this transfer had been done. No mention is made of the TA's job performance
execution in progress reports or in supervision reports;
(e)   while most ministries now have computers, it is not possible to attribute computer
capability in these ministries to the project as no mention is made in supervision
and progress reports of such training.
D.   Lessons Learned
6.    Several lessons may be drawn from the experience of this project. First the project was
too large and complicated to be managed by one project coordinator.  It had too many
components to be managed by one task manager. Secondly, a closer and more coherent
monitoring by the Bank of the indicators of success during implementation would be desirable.
Also needed is more Bank active participation in preparation of project decisions such as the
formulation of training programs and assessment of training impact.
7.    It is important to ensure that the conditions of services and administrative procedures on
the Borrower's side do not constrain the fulfillment of TA project objectives. In particular,
reasonable staff stability, clear indicators of how TA would be integrated into counterparts' work
programs and impact their job performance, and a minimal incentive framework that should favor
learning on the part of counterparts and facilitate skills transfer on expertise's side should be
addressed by both the Bank and the Borrower during TA project design.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
AEDE-MEMOIRE
Minutes of Wrap up Meeting with Benin Authorities
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) meeting for the Technical Assistance
Project for Planning and Economic Management was held at the Ministry of Economic Planning
on May 11, 1995. The meeting was attended by representatives from the following agencies:
Ministry of Justice and Legislation, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Rural Development, Ministry
of Plan, Department of Investment Promotion, Department of Regional Planning the Treasury
Department, Department of Industry, and the Department of Debt Management.
The mission briefed the Government officials on the objective of the ICR and the mission's
findings. The Government representatives agreed with the mission's findings and made the
following remarks:
(a)   The high staff turnover of the project's personnel on the part of both the
Government and the Bank Group created many of the implementation problems;
(b)   Delays by the Bank Group in approving procurement applications also caused
many implementation problems;
(c)   Given the current economic and political situation of the country at the time, the
project could only address part of the problems in the Government agencies; and
(d)   Although the training component of the project had some positive impact in the
Ministries, it is inadequate for current and perceived future needs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX B:
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



Appendix B
Page I of 5
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D' ASSISTANCE
TECHNIQUE A LA PLANIFICATION ET A LA GESTION
DE L'ECONOMIE (PATPGE)
CREDIT 1530-BEN
RESUME
I.    INTRODUCTION
Le Projet Assistance Technique a la Planification et a la Gestion de lEconomie (PATPGE)
dont l'Accord de Credit a ete signe le 28 fevrier 1985 est entre en vigueur le 30 juin de la meme
annee avant de connaltre un demarrage effectif au cours de l'annee 1986. Initialement prevu pour
prendre fin le 31 mars 1991, le Gouvemement du Benin a dui demander plus d'une fois la
prorogation de cette date, la derniere etant intervenue le 31 mars 1994.
II est donc evident que le present rapport mettra, hormis la description des objectifs
initiaux du projet et son plan de financement, un accent particulier sur les differentes activites
retenues eu regard aux objectifs du projet et par rapport au recentrage du projet qui s'est avere
necessaire suite a 1'ex6cution du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.
H.    OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Selon l'Accord de Credit signe le 28 fevrier 1985 entre le Gouvernement du Benin et la
Banque Mondiale, ce premier projet d'assistance technique vise a ameliorer la capacite de
planification et de gestion de 1'econornie du Benin
Ses objectifs sont:
-     ameliorer les methodes d'laboration de strategie de developpement et
de formulation de politiques 6conomiques;
-     ameliorer les methodes de programmation, de budgetisation et de suivi
des investissements du secteur public;
-     d'ameliorer la preparation et I'analyse des projets d'investissements;
-     d'organiser les finances publiques selon une structure plus coherente;
-     de renforcer les institutions participant a la collecte et a l'analyse des
statistiques;
-     d'assurer une formation pour la preparation et l'analyse de projets et pour la
comptabilite d'entreprise et d'offiir des bourses d'etudes superieures a
l'etranger dans les domaines de la statistique, de l'economie et des finances.



Append B
Page 2 of 5
IE RESULTATS ET IMPACTS DU PROJET
1.    Planification macro-6conomique et Elaboration des projets
A la Direction du Plan; Expert macro-conomie
Les objectifs ne sont pas atteints. L'expert s'est plutot contente de jouer le role de
superviseur des activit6s des autres experts, laissant de c6te la formation des homologues
nationaux.
Plusieurs etudes n'ont pas 6te realisees (analyse conjoncturelle, suivi de l'evolution de
l'economie).
Expert en Programmation
Les objectifs fixes dans ce domaine sont atteints.
Lexpert a contribue a renforcer la capacite des cadres nationaux a la programmation et au
suivi de 1'execution des investissements.
Au Bureau Central des Projets (MPRE)
Aucun objectif n'est atteint. La reorganisation du BCP n'a pas et6 realisee et 1'expert n'a
pu ex6cut6 sa mission. Les raisons sont plutot d'ordre institutionnel et ne releve pas du fait de
rexpert.
A Is Direction de l'Industrie (MIPME)
Les objectifs fix6s ne sont pas atteints. Deux etudes seulement sur onze ont ete realis6es.
Lexcprt a demissionn6 un an apres son recrutement a cause de conflits au sein de l'equipe des
experts (team-leader et autres experts).
II n'a pas et6 possible de trouver dans l'immediat un autre expert pour assurer la suite des
opdrations. A cela il faut ajouter des problemes d'ordre institutionnel qui n'ont pas permis un suivi
par l'administration de ce volet.
A Ia Direction de l'Elevage (MDR)
L'objectif n'est pas atteint. Le rapport definitif de l'etude n'a pas pu elaborer une strategie
et un programme de d6veloppement de l'6levage. D'autre part, Nevaluation du rapport du groupe
Louis Berger a r6vele que d'importants financements sont entrain d'&re investis dans ce secteur.
Par cons&quent, l'intervention du projet n'a plus ete jugee utile.



Appen&c B
Page 3 of 5
2.    Gestion des Finances Publiques
A la Direction du Budget
Les resultats ont ete atteints. L'expert, de par son experience et son ouverture a apporte
une contribution appreciable a la Direction du Budget par la formation des cadres et les travaux,
qu'il a realises.
A la Direction du Tresor
Les resultats prevus dans le cadre du projet n'ont pas ete atteints.
A la Direction des Douanes
Les objectifs ont ete atteirts.
A la Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA)
Les objectifs sont partiellement atteints. La CAA, grace aux travaux du Conseiller en
Comptabilite a adapte un Nouveau Plan Comptable. Mais en ce qui concerne l'information, les
propositions faites par le Consultant ont et jugees sur-dimensionnees par la Banque mondiale.
L'architecture informatique proposee a et6 reduite a l'acquisition de trois (3) micro-ordinateurs
juges necessaires par la Banque pour les besoins de la CAA.
3.    Formation
Un expert en formation recrute par le PNUD a identifie les besoins de formation au niveau
d'un certain nombre de ministeres et a procede a l'organisation de plusieurs voyages d'etudes. Des
seance. de formation ont et realisees au CENAFOC mais des goulots d'etranglement ont vite
apparu en ce qui concerne la formation des homologues locaux travaillant avec les experts. Au
total, il faut retenir que le plan ambitieux de formation retenu au depart n'a pas ete execute.
4.    Bourses
L'economie, la demographie, la fiscalite et la comptabilite ont et les domaines retenus
dans lesquels des Bourses devraient etre octroyees aux cadres pour des formations de longue
duree a l'etranger. Effectivement plusieurs cadres des ministeres des Finances et du Plan ont
beneficie de ces formations. Mais pour permettre a un nombre plus important de cadres de mettre
a jour leurs connaissances les longues durees ont et converties en des formations de courtes
durees et des criteres plus objectifs de selection des candidats ont ete mis a jour.
Cette formule a permis le recyclage d'un nombre plus important de cadres dans des
universites et des centres prestigieux de formation. Par ailleurs, plusieurs dizaines de cadres de
conception et d'execution dont les directions ont et dotees de micro-ordinateurs ont beneficie
d'une formation en informatique dans des instituts specialises de la place.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 5
5.    Les autres activites
Un peu plus de trois ans apres le demarrage effectif du Projet, le Gouvemement du Benin
a signe un accord avec les Institutions de Bretton Woods pour la mise en application de son
premier PAS; ceci a amene le recentrage du PATPGE et desormais le Credit 1530-BEN a ete mis
a contribution pour les reformes prevues par le Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.
IV.   DIFFICULTES ET INSUFFISANCES DU PROJET
Le projet a connu d'enormes difficultes des le debut de son execution a cause de la
multiplicite des bailleurs de fonds. Nous noterons quelques difficultes liees a la collaboration
specifique avec la Banque.
Les principaux problemes rencontres par le projet peuvent etre reperes au niveau de:
*  Ia conception technique d'un projet lourd oui la coherence des volets inipliqua.t un respect des
delais, des echeanciers et l'impossibilite de rectifier rapidement certains terines de reference,
-  la conception des structures de gestion du projet ou les regles d'orientation et de procedures
n'ont pas ete clairement definies, ou du moins interpretees a l'identique par les organismes
cofinanciers.
Un certain nombre de dysfonctionnement peuvent &re notes au niveau de la structure
institutionnelle, de la multiplicite des procedures et de la lourdeur de gestion.
Au niveau des bailleurs de fonds
La Banque mondiale et le PNIJD ont eu des procedures et des orientations differentes.
Ces divergences ont notamment concerne le role du Coordonnateur National, les choix
concernant la formation, plus specialement l'allocation des bourses et des financements.  Dans la
pratique et du fait des divergences d'interpretation, il y a un non respect des principes du partage
des couts et parallelisme des financements.
Au niveau des relations entre l'administration et Bailleurs de fonds
L'administration Beninoise etait inclue dans un projet ou chaque bailleur de fonds avait
ses orientations, ses attentes et ses procedures.
Au niveau de l'equipe en charge du projet (Experts, Homologues, Coordonnateur
National, Team-leader)
Des conflits de personnes ont interfere pour compliquer les liens entre experts, team-
leader, et le PNUD. Tout ceci a cree un climat peu propice a un esprit d'equipe indispensable au
bon deroulement du projet.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 5
Ces difficultes n'ont donc pas permis de gerer le projet dans sa conception initiale. Chaque
bailleur de fonds s'est resolu a executer le projet dans l'entendement de ses orientations et
conceptions.
Difficultes liees a la collaboration avec la Banque mondiale
Les contacts permanents de la Coordination du Projet avec la Mission R6sidente de la
Banque ont permis des echanges tres positifs en ce qui concerne la resolution des problemes
pouvant decouler des interpretations de conception, d'orientation, de procedures de mise en
oeuvre du projet.
Cependant, la principale difficulte connue est relative aux avis de non-objection qui
mettent six (6) mois voire un (1) an pour nous parvenir avec toutes les consequences que cela
occasionne sur la realisation des objectifs et activites.
Cette situation merite muire reflexion tant du c6te de la Banque que de l'administration afin
d'assurer une meilleure consommation des fonds.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX C:
DESCRIPTION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED



Appendix C
Page 1 of 4
DescriDtion of Technical Assistance to be Provided
A.    Macroeconomic Planning and Project Preparation
1     Macroeconomic  Analysis and  Investment Proeramming.   In the MPS, a
Macroeconomic Advisor would work with a team of nationals headed by the Director of
DES. He would lead work on policy-oriented Macroeconomic studies, advise on
technical matters relating to the formulation of national development strategies and the
preparation of national development plans; and assist in the monitoring of economic
developments. The latter was expected to lead to the regular quarterly production of
studies of the current economic situation (Note de conjuncture).
2      An Investment Programmer would work in the DPAT, advising the Director of
DPAT and the four programming section chiefs. The work of the investment programmer
would be to reinforce the concept of keeping public sector investment plans in line with
national priorities and existing budget constraints. At budgeting time he would ensure that
the investment budget is a part of a financial program that is feasible and that also provides
for recurrent and counterpart funds. Between budgets, he would concentrate on follow-
up of project execution. His programming work would go part-way towards addressing
the issue of the operation and maintenance of existing investments by integrating into the
budgeting exercise the practice of explicitly allocating the needed resources. The advisor
would follow up and expand on the work of the UNDP-financed expert.
3      An Epatriate Project Analyst would be recruited for two years. He would work
closely with the Director of the BCP and would take advantage of teaching materials
developed by the Economic Development Institute (EDI) on project analyst to help the
BCP build up a reference library during the project period.
4      An Expert on Proiect Preparation. Project formulation and preparation would take
place in the DEPs of the technical ministries. In order to strengthen their capabilities,
staff released through the restructuring of the BCP would be reassigned in the DEPs of
those ministries. The DEPs would have continuous access to the advice of the expert on
project preparation and analysis recruited for the BCP.
5      An Advisor on Industrial Projects  Given the present and future importance of
industrial and agro-industrial projects in the economy, the services of an Advisor on
Industrial Projects would be provided to the Industry Directorate (DI) of the MFE. The
adviser would help the DI to increase its capacity to (i) prepare and promote sound
Other Past and On-eoine Technical Assistanc . Five agencies had provided technical assistance to Benin in the
areas of Macroeconomic management, project preparation and statistics. The UNDP provided two technical
assistants to the MPS. One advisor, a macroeconomist, participated in the drafting of the 1983-1987
Development Plan and left Cotonou in March 1984 for another assignment The other advisor, an investment
programmer, introduced some improved procedures for the monitoring of public investnent.



Appendix C
Page 2 of 4
industrial projects, (ii) supervise and advise existing industrial companies especially public
enterprises, and (iii) carry out studies leading to the formulation of coherent strategies for
industrial subsectors. This assistance is required given (a) the limited experience of the
DI's staff and the major responsibilities entrusted to this directorate, and (b) the poor
performance of public enterprises and the large projects completed over the last few years
(Onigbolo cement, Savc Sugar). The adviser would work closely with the chiefs of
service of the DI who would assume a leading role after the term of the expatriate advisor.
6     A Livestock Advisor would be recruited to strengthen the livestock directorate
and help prepare a project which would be a coordinated follow-up operation to livestock
activities.
B.    Public Finance Management
7     The assistance foreseen in the area of public finance management consisted of
short and medium-term expertise to assist in: (i) improving the structure of the budget
and strengthening the Treasury Department; (ii) creating the capacity to monitor and
manage the public debt; and (iii) improving the data collection process for public finance
statistics. The credit would finance the services of consultants to help the Budget and
Treasury departments introduce the systematic budgetary nomenclature for the operating
and investment budgets so that they are compatible with IMF nomenclature. The use of
new nomenclature in budgeting would allow for proper budget execution and expenditure
control. A Public Finance System Specialist would be recruited to allow proper follow-up
after the initial design of a new budget framework.  In addition, an Accountant and a
Systems Specialist would be recruited to help adapt the Treasury's accounting system to
the new budget nomenclature and supervise the computerization of the Treasury's
operations.
8     Two short-term  Consultants would be attached to the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) of the Ministry of Finance. The first, an Accountant would help
the CAA adapt its accounting system to conform with the National Accounting Plan and
generally improve accounting procedures. The second, a Computer Specialist, would
assist the CAA in computerizing its external debt statistics and-accounting system. This
would supplement the efforts of the Debt Specialist seconded by the Bank to improve the
CAA's debt-management capacity, in particular its knowledge of debt stock, its evolution
through time, and projections of debt service obligations.
9     An Economic Statistician specialized in public finance and acting as an advisor
would be recruited to assist the Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) of the
MFE to establish procedures for prompt data collection on revenue, expenditure, and
public debt so that a consolidated picture of Benin's financial situation could be obtained
and kept up to date. One of the outcomes of this exercise would be the establishment of
monthly economic indicators. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would assign two public finance statisticians to work full time with the advisor. The
advisor and the local team would be expected to begin their work by doing a joint



Appendix C
Page 3 of 4
diagnosis of procedures for producing the required statistics. Other short term programs
would be financed in the area of customs collection.
C     Statistics
10    A Statistician would be recruited to strengthen the capacity of  the Insfitut
National de la Statistique et de I'Analyse Economique (INSAE) to compile national
accounts. He would help to improve the collection and analysis of data for national
accounts, and would be complemented by short-term consultants in the areas of external
trade, prices and public finance statistics. Two Statisticians would assist INSAE in
conducting a household budget and expenditure survey, as well as publishing the results.
A demographer would also be recruited to analyze the 1979 population census and the
1983 survey and to publish the results.
D     Training
11    In addition to the streamlining of responsibilities of selected Government agencies
and the introduction of improved procedures, the project included training activities which
are an integrated part of a strategy for long lasting institutional strengthening. While
substantial work had been done to assess the training needs in technical fields under the
two IDA financed Education Projects and with the assistance of UNESCO and ILO, the
training needs in key ministries and agencies are yet to be properly assessed.
Consequently the assistance foreseen in the area of training included the provision of the
services of a resident training advisor and preparation of an in-service training program in
the priority area of project analysis, preparation, and supervision. The project included a
taining prograrn in business accounting and training of a linited number of tax auditors.
12    The training sub-component included the service of a Training Advisor to be
attached to the project coordinator's office.  He  would, at project inception, be
responsible for assessing the training needs of all agencies involved in the project and
helping each technical assistant design on-the-job training programs and identify' formal
training opportunities for national staff.  During project implementation, he would
coordinate training activities under the project and monitor their execution.
13    Training in project analysis, preparation, and supervision. An in-house service
program for medium-and high-level staff from various ministries, government agencies,
and state enterprises. The training program would cover all stages of the project cycle,
placing emphasis on calculation of financial and economic rates of return, determination of
recurrent costs and debt-service implications, and methods of proper project supervision.
14    The business accounting program would be a continuation of an ILO-assisted
program initiated in 1982 to implement the system of standardized enterprise accounting
introduced by the Government in 1981. ELO assistance would end in December 1984,
IDA  would then financed the continuation of the program  for three years.  The
participants would come from both public and private companies in Benin. The program
would improved in three respects: (a) clear distinction would be made in the curriculum



Appendix C
Page 4 of 4
between three levels of qualifications in the field of accounting: certified accountants,
accountants, and junior accountants; (b) the programn would be designed to ensure
effective follow-up of the participants in their enterprises to help them apply proper
accounting procedures; and (c) although MLO would continue to assist in the management
of the program, local and foreign consultants would be utilized to a greater extent to
complement the expertise made available by the "Centre National de Fornation
Comptable" (CENAFOC) at Cotonou and the lLO. A short-term consultant would train
about ten Beninese professionals of the Taxation Directorate of the MFE in the area of
enterprise tax auditing. This training program would aim at establishing two tax auditing
brigades of about five members each, to strengthen Government's ability to collect
corporate taxes.
16    Because of the acute shortage of trained economists, and public and private
administration specialists in Benin, the credit would financed fellowships for graduate
studies in these fields. The fellowships would offer twelve student-years of graduate
education abroad, since no graduate-level training programs are offered in Benin and
bilateral funds for these purposes had declined in recent years. The fellowships would
serve to broaden knowledge and develop expertise of professionals who had graduated
from the university and have demonstrated strong potential in their work performance
over at least a three-year period.
E.    Activities to be Identified
16 About 15 per cent of the credit would be reserved at the outset to finance activities
subsequently to be identified in the above components or which otherwise would serve the
overall project objectives of strengthening macroeconomic management and preparing
sound projects. Programming of such fund would be administered by the Project
Coordinator in consultation with and subject to the approval of the Association. Technical
assistance, studies, training activities and equipment to be financed under the "Activities to
be identified" category can be determined precisely only during project implementation.
However, funds are likely to be under for inter alia (i) policy-oriented macro-economic
studies in the MPS, (ii) sector reviews and feasibility studies;,follow-up actions which
would be necessary for MFE; and technical assistance for certain aspects of a financial
stabilization program foreseeable in the next two years.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX D:
AUDITORS REPORT (SUMMARY)



ACCORD DE CREDIT DE DEVELOPPEMENT      Appendix D
N1530/BEN du 28 fevrier 1985    Page 1 of 3
entre
LA REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
et
L'ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE A LA
PLANIFICATION ET A LA GESTION DE L'ECONOMIE
MJI  EA 7 DU PLNA ETDE LA RESTRUCTUR417ON
ECONOmIQVE 3lfP.RE) - crO.vOU BEVIA
RAPPORTS D'AUDIT SUR LES COMPTES
ARRETES AU 31 JUILLET 1994
Prisertes  .
CABIN ET: COMPANGIE FIDUCAMIREASSOCIEEDUBEJJIN
BRP J39 Triepho*e31 4w 90 COTONOU            ._



Appendix D
Page 2 of 3
1 - Observations et remarques gen&rales
Les diligences que nous avons accomplies nous ont pernis de releve les
insuffisances ci-apres:
- les decaissements effectu6s par la Banque Mondiale en vue de payer
directement les foumnitures ou services n'ont pas ete enregistr6s dans les livres du
projet depuis le demarrage,
en consequence, les livres, bien qu'ils soient regulierement tenus, ne traduisent
pas la gIobalite des operations du PAIPGE,
- les immobilisanons ntont pas ete amorties reguli&ement suivant les taux
conformes aux usages depuis le demarrage du projet,
- les etats de syntheses mis a notre disposition ne sont pas conformes , quant a
leur forme , aux 6nonciations du Plan Comptable National, alors que le projet a
adopts ce plan pour le traitement des informations comptables,
C'est ainsi que dans le cadre de cette revue des comptes, nous avons procede a
des redressements afin que les comptes puissent traduire, tant dans leur globalitd_
que dans leur exhaustivite, toutes les operations du Projet au 31 juillet 1994.
Le redressement le plus significatif porte sur les paiements directs effectues par la
Banque Mondiale . Ces paiements se chiffrent a cfa 334.511.413 au titre de la
periode sous revue.
Pour ce qui concerne la forme des etats de synthese, nous avons repns les
documents mis a notre disposition, en les presentant,' d'une maniere simpliee,
suivant les modeles prescnts par le Plan comptable National du Benin.
2 - Incertitudes et limitations
L'inventaire physique des immobilisations n'a pas ete effectue au 31 juillet 1994.
En effet le proces verbal de prise d'inventaire nous aurait pennis de proceder au
recoupement des biens inventories avec les elements inscrits dans les comptes en
vue de corroborer la valeur des imnnobilisations portee au bilan.



Appendix D
Page 3 of 3
En I'absence du proces verbal de prise d'inventaire physique, fl nous est
raisonnablement impossible d'emettre une opinion quant a ce qui concemne, la
materialite, 1'exhaustivit6 et la valeur des biens immobilises tels qu'ils sont port6s
au bilan a la date du 31 juillet 1994.
D'autre part, la situation des foumitures non consommees au 31 julflet 1994 ne
nous a pas ete communiqu6e.
Par ailleurs , compte tenu de la duree limit6e qui s'imposait a notre intervention,
nous n'avons pas pu adresser des demandes de confirmation de solde au tiers pour
nous assurer que tous les engagements du projet au 31 juillet 1994 ont Wt
correctement comptabilises.
3 - OPINION SUR LES COMPTES ARRETES AU 31/07/1994
Sous r6serves des incertitudes et limitations ci-dessus mentionnmes, les *tats
fmanciers tels qu'ils sont presentes en annexe au present rapport, et dont ils
font partie integrante , refletent la situation financiere du Projet
d'Assistance Technique a la Plan;fication et a la Gestion de I'Economie et le
resultat d'ensemble de ces operations pendant Ia periode allant du ler
janvier 1994 au 31 juillet 1994.
COTONOU, LE 15 OCTOBRE 1994
Pour la CompajIiiduciaire
ANoT'   A sa
da Matha SA.               Oscar



I M AG I N G
Report No:       15031
Type: ICR



