Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22626-ES
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$142.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR
AN EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND
HEALTH SERVICES EXTENSION PROJECT
October 31, 2001
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Salvadoran Colones
US$1.00 = 8.75 Colones
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS         Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI          Acute Respiratory Infection
CMF          Construction Management Firm
DHS          Demographic and Health Surveys
EDI          Enteric Diarrhea Infection
FISDL        Social Investment Fund for Local Development
GOES         Government of El Salvador
HIV          Human Immune-deficiency Virus
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
lMBM         Institutional Modernization Benchmark Matrix
IEU          Infrastructure Executing Unit
ISSS         Salvadoran Social Security Institute
LACAP        Ley de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones de la Administraci6n Publica
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH          Ministry of Health
MSPAS        Ministerio de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
PAS          Policy Activity Schedule
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
SIBASI       Health Districts (Sistemas Basicos de Salud Integral)
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
STD          Sexually Transmitted Disease
SUMA         Supply Management
Vice President: David De Ferranti
Counitry Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager: Charles Griffin
Team ILeaders: Gerard Martin La Forgia/Sandra Rosenhouse



El Salvador
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ....................................................................2
1.   Project development objective ....................................................................2
2.   Key  performance  indicators ....... .............................................................2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..................................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the project and  strategic  choices .................................8
C. Project Description Summary ...................................................................1  I
1. Project components ...................................................................                                                  11
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project ..................................... 17
3. Benefits and target population ...................................................................                                     17
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................ 18
D. Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                               22
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection .............................................. 22
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 23
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design ...................................................... 23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................... 25
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................. 25
E. Summary Project Analysis ...................................................................                                                        25
1. Economic ...................................................................                                                           25
2. Financial ...................................................................                                                          26
3. Technical ...................................................................                                                          26
4. Institutional ...................................................................                                                      26
5. Social ...................................................................                                                             29
6. Environmental assessment ...................................................................                                           29
7. Participatory  approach ...................................................................                                            32
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................................................................                                                        33
1. Sustainability ...................................................................                                                     33
2. Critical Risks ...................................................................                                                     34
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...................................................................                                     34
iii



G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                 35
1. Effectiveness Conditions ...........................35
2. Other ......................... 37
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                         37
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................... 37
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     2. Detailed Project Description
2a. Detailed Description of the Emergency Reconstruction Component
2b. Institutional Modernization Benchmark Matrix
2c. Social Assessment
2d Part 1: Assessment of Hospital Medical Waste Management and Di spo5 al
Practices
2d Part 2: Environmental Assessment of Reconstruction Process and
Environmental Action Plan
2e. Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6a:    Proposed Organization MOH/World Bank
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Additional annexes, where applicable: Letter of Sector Policy, Eligibility Criteria for Benef icianes
and Hospitals, and summaries of the Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental
Analyses, Indigenous Peoples' Plan, Resettlement Plan, etc.
Map
iv



El Salvador
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCSHH
Date: October 31, 2001                                  Team Leaders: Gerard M. La Forgia/Sandra Rosenhouse
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo         Sector Manager/Director: Charles Griffin
Project ID: P067986                                     Sector: HY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan/Sector     Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Investment Loan
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    []  Yes  [ x] No
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan       [ ] Credit       [] Grant       G] Guarantee        [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$142.6 million
Proposed terms:     U To be defined         [] Multicurrency      [X] Single currency US Dollars
[] Standard Variable   [XI Fixed Spread       [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5 years
Years to maturity:               17 years
Commitment fee:                  0.85% first 4 years,
0.75% afterwards
Service charge:                  0%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:       1.0%
Financing plan:
Source                               Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                                    8.7               14.2               23.1
IBRD                                                         55.4               87.2              142.6
Total:                                                       64.1              101.4              165.7
Government's Reconstruction Program:
IDB                                                                                                20.7
CABEI                                                                                              26.0
Japan                                                                                              20.0
GOES                                                                                               26.8
Others                                                                                             10.1
Total:                                                                                            103.6
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY             2002        2003          2004         2005          2006         2007
Annual        5.1          23.2         54.5          42.8          12.8          4.2
Cumulative        5.1         28.3          82.8         125.6        138.3         142.6
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: February, 2002             Expected closing date: April 30, 2007
Implementing agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH - Contact person: Vice-Minister of Health Dr. Herbert Betancourt
Contact person: - Ministry of Health - El Salvador, Tel: (503) 222-7725. Fax: (503) 221-0985






A. Project Development Objective
1. Proiect Development Obiectives: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project seeks to restore hospital operations and minimize losses in health status to
vulnerable populations living in the country's earthquake-damaged Central and Para-Central
Regions and to improve the health status of underserved populations elsewhere, with special
emphasis on the poverty-stricken Northern Region. This will be achieved by: (i) rebuilding and
improving health sector infrastructure damaged or destroyed by the earthquakes; (ii) extending the
coverage of essential health and nutrition services through a community-based outreach approach;
and (iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to develop and
implement policies and priority programs for the health sector.
2. Key Performance Indicators: (see Annex I for a list of performance indicators)
The project's performance will be guided and measured by indicators covering the following areas:
*  Hospital reconstruction/rehabilitation: facilities constructed/rehabilitated, services fully
functioning, increased efficiency, and patient satisfaction;
v  Preventive and corrective maintenance: maintenance staff trained, protocols/manuals
produced, and facilities with functioning programs;
*  Essential health: vaccination rates, malnutrition, growth monitoring, prenatal care, tetanus
vaccination rates, and utilization;
*  National priority programs: entomological surveillance, incidence of dengue and
HIV/AIDS, toxic medical waste management; and environmental health; and
*  MOH stewardship role: contracting and forming partnerships with NGOs, foundations,
cooperatives and government agencies such as ISSS and municipalities, performance
agreements with MOH providers, national health policy formation, information
technology, communication strategies, and monitoring and evaluation.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex I)
Date of latest CAS discussion: March 6, 1997 (R97-27). A CAS for the FY 2002-2005 period is
being presented to the Board with this project.
The new CAS takes into consideration the economic disruption caused by the earthquakes in
January and February 2001 and their devastating impact on health infrastructure and the redrawing
of the poverty map. The CAS has an overriding reconstruction/ poverty reduction objective of
reducing nationwide poverty to 30-3 5 percent by year 2005, despite heavy losses due to
earthquakes. The proposed project is the centerpiece of the Bank's emergency reconstruction
assistance. First, the project will reconstruct seven large hospitals in earthquake-affected areas and
make them more functional and more efficient and patient-friendly. Second, it will strengthen
essential health and nutrition services in earthquake-affected and extremely poor areas by
expanding coverage of essential services for the poor, supporting cost-effective health and nutrition
interventions and improving their quality, strengthening environmental health programs, and
2



impletnentinln institutional reforms to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of poverty
alleviation ef'orts.
The Health Sector in El Salvador
'T'he public, social security system and private subsectors provide health serx ices to the Sal adormi
population, whiclh is estimated to consist of 6.4 million people in 2001. However only two-thirds
of the population are estimated to have access to medical care, leaving about 2 million peol-ie wth
limited ot no access to healthcare services. ()liderserved populations are concentrated in. but not
limnited to. the country's Northern Region. The population is young, with 46 percent being  nder
the age of i9. 'len percent of the population is indigenous and lives mainlv along the bordem witl
(iuateniala. although this situation has changed somewhat as a result of the 2001 earthquahc s. TEhe
MO-lT is a ma jor player in the public health sector as a financier and provider of health care
services. The social securitv system includes the Salvadoran Institute of Social Security (IS;S) and
mimlitarn health facilities. Private hospitals and ambulatory clinics are concentrated in large :itie;.
inanlx San Salvador and San Miguel. Approximately 30 NGOs provide basic health and nutriticn
ser ices to populatiotns with little access to private and public facilities.
Nalional expeniditures for health in 1997 were about 8 percent of GDP or US$ 53 per capit,. which
is below the Latin Arnerican average. Household expenditures for health represent 61 perc2nt ol
total health expenditures, and the remainder is public expenditure. Sources of public funds ire
MOH (general revenue) - 39 percent, ISSS (payroll tax) - 45 percent, external funds - 9 per, ent,
and others - 7 percent. Although ISSS accounts for 45 percent of public expenditures, it seflies a
beneficiary population of'only 840,000 or 13 percent of the population. MOH on the other hand is
;,'aminally responsible for serving about 80 percent of the populationi withi 39 percent of the ublic
funds. The share of MOHi in total health expenditures is 15 percent.
2. Main sector issues and zovernment strategy
The- health sector suffered extensive damage from the earthquakes of January and February 1001
i'he capacity of MOII to supply services and to respond to the health needs of its populatioin has
diminished significantly, particularly in the earthquake-affected Central Region of the coun, -v.
There, many5 hospitals and ambulatory unlits have beeni evacuated or have significantly reduc. ed
operations. T-his sitiation is c.ompounded by the populations' reduced access to functioning
facilities due o t1he damaged road network, Moreover, facilities in adjoininig departments, nlrnv o.'
whiclh were already overcrowded, have had to absorb demand from daniaged facilities. Thli, lhas
placed additional pressure onl the ability of the health network to respond to demand. Despitc
significant progress during the last decade, the performance of the Salvadoran health systerrm Is at
risk of losing ground, threatening recent gains in health status.
El Salvador faces multiple challenges in the health sector. T'he earthquakes have compoundeo
existing lhealth issues Most of the country's healthi indicators are below the lACG region's avtvrage-.
rany concern preventable communicable and infectious diseases. Malnutrition is also highl .
prevalent among special population groups such as pregnant women and children under 5 vcirs
old. Diarrhea and respiratory infections figure predominantly among poor populations and
disproportionately affect the young. More recently, and following the demographic transitioi, a
different set of behavior-based diseases, such as 1Ily/AIDS, has emerged among highily urban and
mobile adolescent and adult populationls.
From the standpoint of infrastructure, poverty. and the health system, the most relevant sector
issues are the following:
3



Emergency reconstruction of the public hospital network. On January 13 and February 13,
2001, El Salvador was rocked by two powerful earthquakes that destroyed 194,000 homes and
killed 1260 inhabitants. Damage from both quakes was estimated at 12 percent of the couinitry's
GDP in 2000. Physical infrastructure losses were significant, particularly affecting schools,
hospitals and health clinics, cultural heritage sites, and small and medium-sized enterprises. Social
sector infrastructure was the most severely affected, representing about 40 percent of the losses.
I)amage from the first earthquake was greatest in the Departments of San Vicente, La Paz, and
Usulutan, while the second caused heavy damage in the Departments of La Paz, San Vicente, San
Salvador, and Cuscatlan. Two MOH hospitals suffered severe damage, and another six hospitals
bore sufficient impact to require full or partial evacuation. The most badly damaged hospitals
continue to operate under large tents, in trailers, and in other provisional structures, while the rest
have reduced their operations. Altogether, 1 13 of the 361 MOH health facilities were affected,
representing 55 percent of MOH's supply of health care services. The second quake left more than
2,000 hospital beds out of service, reducing capacity by 25 percent. The latter figure does not
reflect the overcrowding and pressure caused by the relocation of patients to nearby facilities on an
already weakened delivery system.
Most tertiary and large secondary care hospitals are on average 75 years old and were built to less
stringent seismic code standards than infrastructure that was constructed more recently. These
structures contain sections built over a century ago alongside sections constructed as recently as
three years ago. The often ad hoc nature of this piecemeal construction has resulted in several
facilities having limited functionality. Furthermore, these structures were designed to a very
different technological standard and are generally obsolete. Lack of maintenance over time has
contributed considerably to the physical deterioration of infrastructure and equipment. The
dysfunctional layout of older hospitals, combined with the outdated and damaged state of their
equipment, pose a considerable risk to patients and reduce the unit's ability to respond effectively.
Many facilities do not meet the minimal conditions required for performing standard treatments
safely. The definition of a health network with clearly specified functions and missions for each
hospital is lacking, contributing to a weak referral system. The proposed project will reconstruct
and rehabilitate seven of the most damaged hospitals. Studies are being conducted for each
hospital to assess its degree of internal functionality and its relationship to the health network. The
results will help to redefine each hospital's role in the overall public health network.
Inequitable access and disparities in health outcomes. Despite recent progress in increasing
health infrastructure and personnel in rural areas, tabulations of household data show considerable
differences between the health outcomes of low-income groups and those of high-income groups.
The 1998 El Salvador Rural Development Study (World Bank, Rep. No. 17686) found that
children in the poorest quintile are three times more likely to be ill than were children in the highest
quintile. Infant mortality in the poorest municipalities is over 60 percent higher than in the richest.
Access follows a similar trend. Salvadorans in the highest income tercile are one-third more likely
to receive medical care for an episode of illness than those in the lowest tercile. The incidence of
poverty is higher in rural El Salvador than in urban areas, and this is reflected in nearly all health
indicators. Governnent programs have significantly reduced urban-rural disparities regarding
immunization coverage and use of oral rehydration solutions to treat diarrhea, but further efforts
are needed to improve other basic services such as pre- and post-natal care, cervical cancer
screening, and use of modern contraception. Unless addressed in a systematic and concentrated
fashion, these disparities are likely to increase in the earthquake-affected areas of the Central and
Para-Central Regions. Moreover, the ability of MOH providers to attend to the basic care needs of
the most affected populations has been severely compromised in earthquake affected areas, since
most facilities have suffered some damage.
4






' t !
74 
P .ot coreyo     aP#s esae,E   avdr






Problems with the delivery of essential health and nutrition services. Previous efforts to reduce
gaps in access to health services can provide lessons for crafting effective strategies to improve
their delivery. These efforts focused mainly on improving infrastructure and hiring promoters to
deliver preventive and curative services in rural areas. While some progress has been made,
especially in terms of immunizations, future efforts should be geared towards ensuring greater
consumption of health services by the poor.
Recent World Bank sector work' examining the provision of primary care services in rural El
Salvador, combined with results from the 1993 and 1998 demographic and health surveys and from
assessments of service provision, suggests that the MOH delivery strategy should be refocused
since: (i) the expansion appears to have benefited the non-poor in rural areas more than the poor,
and future efforts will need to emphasize greater access by the poor; (ii) demand for health care
during an episode of illness by the poor remained unchanged during the 1990s; (iii) NGO providers
are perceived by users to be of higher quality than MOH providers, in part because of the low and
irregular availability of and long waits for medication; (v) NGO promoters are better supervised
than MOH promoters; (vi) the presence of an MOH promoter in a community has no effect on the
decision to seek care during an illness episode; and (vii) increasingly, MOH promoters appear to
remain inside the health post to attend to demand, except for participating in periodic immunization
campaigns. In recent years, however, the MOH has taken steps to improve the quality of services
provided by MOH promoters. One important lesson culled from these analyses is the need for a
population-based approach to address the health problems of the population through territorial
planning, community outreach, and improved targeting.
Limited health ministry development of core functions and managerial constraints. The
project completion report for the El Salvador Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (No. 16774;
1997) concluded that continued expansion of social services to cover low-income communities will
depend not only on the availability of supply but, to a large extent, on developing stronger
institutional capacity and improving management. MOH is oriented to the management of its
input-based delivery system within a mostly centralized command structure. Current MOH
authorities seek to develop the institutional and managerial capacity to assume critical functions
associated with stewardship: policy guidance, regulation, financing of public goods, targeting
public subsidies to the poor, and monitoring and evaluation. The following areas merit special
attention:
Vector-borne diseases: Despite making some progress in controlling communicable diseases, El
Salvador continues to suffer significant and recurring outbreaks of vector-borne diseases such as
dengue and malaria. Dengue was first recognized in tl Salvador in 1980, and epidemics
subsequently occurred in 1993, 1994, and 1995. In 2000, the country experienced the largest and
most severe epidemic of dengue in its history. There were approximately 17,000 dengue cases
reported and 26 fatalities due to hemorrhagic dengue (DHF), in part due a highly virulent strain of
dengue. An assessment of the 2000 epidemic suggested the need for community members to be
actively involved in developing a strategy to eliminate and control larval habitats because of limits
on MOH's resources.
HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs): The HIV/AIDS epidemic in El Salvador is
Maureen Lewis, Gunnar Eskeland. and Ximena Traa-Valerezo. 1999. Challenging El Salvador's Rural Health Care
Strategy, DEC Working Paper.
6



concentrated in high-risk subpopulations (homosexual men and sex workers) but is starting to
spread to the general population. This is evidenced by a I percent HIV prevalence rate among
pregnant women. In 1999, the most common mode of transmission was heterosexual transmission,
representing 64 percent of new cases. STDs, a primary risk factor for contracting HIV sexually. are
also on the rise. Although HIV infection rates are low compared to elsewhere in the region, the
epidemic is worsening, and El Salvador needs a more substantial and sustained effort to curtail the
fast-growing epidemic.
The government has taken the lead in analyzing the HIV/AIDS situation, consulting with
stakeholders, and approving a National Strategic Plan. However, political and financial support for
implementation of detection and control actions has yet to materialize. The government now
intends to put in place an official strategy to combat the epidemic. A rapid survey conducted bv
the Bank team showed that surveillance is itregular, communication strategies and campaigns are
non-existent, and laboratories lack the capacity and inputs to perform tests on a sustained basis.
Widespread cultural stigma and social discrimination hamper efforts to implement a large-icale
response to the epidemic.
Environmental health: Central and local laboratories are responsible for testing and analy2ing
samples of food, water, toxic substances, and vectors quickly and reliably. The analytic capacity of
the Central Laboratory requires strengthening and some functions should be decentralized ro local
laboratories for quicker results and actions. The country has an adequate legal and regulatory
framework for managing toxic medical waste, but implementation could be improved. Toxic waste
management in hospitals in the Metropolitan Area of San Salvador follows acceptable procedures.
The challenge is to maintain an affordable program in San Salvador while expanding these
procedures throughout the country.
Monitoring and evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of services, costs, quality, and program
implementation in the MOH needs strengthening. Most evaluation initiatives are driven by and
performed for external agencies. focusing on activities that receive external funding. This is not
conducive to good management practices. Information on results and performance is not utilized
optimally. Facility program managers tend to see information generation as a burdensome
requirement of central-level and external directives.
Information technology: Informlation is fragmented among several overlapping systems, rmiaking it
difficult to consolidate reliable data. Most software applications need upgrading. The frequency of
reporting does not support management decision-making. Emphasis needs to be given to staff
training and technical support.
Sector Management: MOH seeks to give communities a voice in assessing the performance of
health workers, but a viable model has yet to be developed. The health sector needs to define more
clearly the responsibilities of decentralized units while ensuring that they do not function merely as
intermediaries with ill-defined responsibilities vis-a-vis the central MOH or the territorial and
facility providers that they supervise. Facility managers have little discretion over personnel and
other inputs and have little incentive to improve quality, reduce costs, expand coverage, or raise
patient satisfaction. Human resource management and supervision needs to be improved by
formulating clearer policies, procedures, and regulations..
Government Strategy
A high priority program of the government is thie reconstruction of the physical infrastructLure in the
earthquake-damaged areas. It has established a master plan to rebuild or rehabilitate MOH
7



facilities, including 23 of 30 national hospitals and 82 health centers, and to repair miscellaneous
structures including departmental offices and labs. This includes eight large hospitals that have
been totally evacuated or have significantly reduced their operations since the earthquakes. GOES
has mobilized support for the reconstruction program from multilateral banks and governments. It
will use its own funds for feasibility studies, small repairs, and counterpart funds for loans, leaving
some of the larger civil works to multilateral institutions. Existing IDB loans and CABEI funds,
are being utilized to cover the costs of provisional structures and for the rehabilitation of the 16 less
badly damaged hospitals. Additional financing is being negotiated with the Government of Japan
for US$20 million, and another US$10.1 million is being sought from other sources, and GOES
itself has committed US$26.8 million of its own funds. To date, it has obtained $103.6 million of
financing for reconstructing health sector infrastructure. This figure does not include financing
sought under the proposed project to finance the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the seven
largest hospitals.
The government also seeks to take advantage of the reconstruction effort to support broader
changes in the organization and delivery of publicly financed health services. The strategy here is
three-fold: (i) given that many ambulatory facilities have been destroyed or are only partially
functional, the MOH seeks to establish an outreach or community-based approach to primary care
provision while creating more effective targeting mechanisms to reaching poor and vulnerable
populations; (ii) infrastructure activities will respond to a functional planning approach that
specifies, and in some cases, redefines the functions (such as the projected volume of procedures,
equipment requirements, patient flows, service definition, numbers and categories of staff, and
inter-hospital referrals) that will take place in the proposed structures. The approach will also
consider the introduction of new technologies (such as ambulatory surgery and "day" hospitals) to
raise quality and efficiency and (iii) establishing closer ties between hospitals and primary care
providers by decentralizing a subset of management functions, improving the referral system, and
raising quality of care.
Other strategies addressed by the proposed project correspond closely with the government's
National Program, known as the "New Alliance." Two overarching objectives of the National
Program include increasing access to and raising the quality of basic services and developing more
transparent and efficient public sector management and budgeting mechanisms that are oriented
toward priorities, performance, and results. New Alliance operational objectives supported by the
proposed project include: (i) extending and strengthening basic health services with a special focus
on at-risk populations; (ii) strengthening public health programs oriented toward controlling
transmissible diseases; (iii) developing and implementing community-based child health and
promotion interventions in high-risk areas; (iv) introducing alternative and decentralized
organizational and service delivery models; and (v) establishing strategic alliances with private
sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project aims to assist in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the public hospital
infrastructure and to improve the health status of the population living in the country' s poorest
socioeconomic regions and in areas affected by the recent earthquakes. The project will achieve its
developmental objectives by reconstructing and rehabilitating seven of the most earthquake-
damaged public hospitals; providing increased coverage of essential health and nutrition services in
poor and earthquake-affected regions; and institutional strengthening of the MOH to develop and
implement policies and priority programs for the health sector.
8



Emergency Reconstruction of the Public Hospital Network. The earthquakes damaged or
destroyed 23 of 30 national and regional hospitals. Eight of the large hospitals sustained heavy
damage, while the other 15 suffered minor damage requiring substantial repairs. The project will
support the GOES reconstruction program by rehabilitating and reconstructing seven of the eight
damaged hospitals (the reconstruction of the eighth is under negotiation with the Governmernt of
Japan). Damage was more extensive than expected because most public hospitals are old and
deteriorating and were built with less stringent seismic code standards than infrastructure tl;at was
constructed more recently. This reconstruction and rehabilitation will upgrade the infrastructure to
ensure that it complies with the current seismic code and will also improve the intemal
functionality and technology of hospitals. In order to design the improvements and to improve the
referral system, functional analyses are being conducted to analyze the flows within the health
network, taking into account demand for the different levels of services, the epidemiological
profile, and existing supply to identify what services need to be delivered and where and how the
three levels of care need to be linked. Also, the project will support a preventive rnaintenanze
program for infrastructure and equipment.
Targeting health interventions to the poor and vulnerable population groups. Conson.nt with
government strategies and priorities, the proposed project will direct a share of investment io the
country's poorest populations, particularly those living in the Northern Region. These areas include
a high percentage of pregnant women and children under five years old without adequate access to
care. The project will also increase access to cost-effective services such as basic health care and
nutrition for at-risk populations living in municipalities of the Central and Para-Central Regions
that suffered severe earthquake damage.
Strengthening public/private partnerships for the delivery of primary care. Non-
governmental organizations have traditionally played an important role in the delivery of services.
Until recently, there was little or no coordination between the MOH and private providers. The
proposed project will contract with existing NGOs, foundations, and cooperatives and will support
partnerships between NGOs, social security providers, and local governments to continue the
expansion of services to the underprivileged areas. It will also bring these providers into a unified
contracting scheme whereby all providers are obligated to provide basic health and nutrition
services and to comply with a set of standardized performance indicators. The project will also
support building the capacity of providers at the primary level to enhance the efficiency and quality
of service provision.
Strengthening the stewardship functions of the Ministrv of Health. The project will support
strengthening the stewardship functions of MOH related to national priority programs and ils core
functions for supporting these programs. This will be achieved by: (i) addressing national priority
programs of environmental health and control of vector-borne diseases (especially dengue) and of
HIV/AIDS and STDs; (ii) strengthening the regulatory framework for environmental health. with a
special focus on the management and disposal of toxic medical waste; and (iii) strengthening
public health programs that entail the detection and control of vector-borne diseases and HIV/AIDS
and STDs.
Strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health. The project will support
ongoing initiatives in the MOH to reorganize and strengthen institutional capacity. It will support
these efforts in the areas of strategic planning, human resources, and information systems. 'T he
project will also aim to develop a results-oriented delivery system through the implementation of'
performance agreements as well as the establishment of purchasing and contracting functior-s
within the MOH. The project will support MOH efforts to devolve decision-making authorily from
the central level to health district levels by supporting a performance-based delivery system and to
9



develop a feasible model to involve clients in assessing the performance of providers.
The design of the project has been developed based on the following strategic choices:
Support the government's Master Plan for Reconstruction of the Health Sector. GOES has
obtained funding for the reconstruction of health sector infrastructure from numerous sources,
including bilateral and multilateral loans and grants, and has provided US$26 million of its own
funds. This comes to a total of $103.6 million. This figure does not include financing sought under
the proposed project to finance the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the largest seven hospitals.
Ensure responsive management for rapid implementation of the reconstruction program: It
has been noted that, in previous efforts at earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation in El
Salvador, there was very limited implementation and management capacity within the public
implementing agencies, which, combined with extremely bureaucratic procedures, led to very
delayed implementation. Based on recently approved legal frameworks in El Salvador and
drawing on successful experiences in Honduras and education projects in El Salvador, the
infrastructure component of the project will be implemented by a construction management firm
external to the MOH to ensure fluid and timely implementation. To limit start-up delays, all
damage assessments and rehabilitation designs will be completed prior to the project becoming
effective.
Improve the functional design of each hospital and the hospital network: Hospitals in El
Salvador have been designed to function with an outdated level of technology. Most were
constructed in stages with inadequate planning. Each hospital functions independently with limited
connections to the rest of the network. Functional analyses of the internal operation of the
hospitals and of their relation to the network will provide the necessary inputs for restructuring and
reallocating services within and between the seven hospitals to improve and rationalize service
supply.
Develop an effective outreach-oriented delivery model: Previous MOH attempts to reach the
poor have fallen short of the mark due to ill-defined benefits, poor training, lack of supervision, an
absence of incentives, and an overemphasis on infrastructure. Drawing on successes in El Salvador
(NGOs-PROSAMI) and elsewhere (NGOs in Guatemala, MOH in Honduras, and municipalities
and NGOs in Brazil), the project will develop more effective outreach or "active provider" models
that aim to increase the consumption of basic health and nutrition services by the poor at the
community level.
Support a pluralistic provider market by scaling-up private sector and public contracting
experiences: Private provision of essential health care to poor populations is well established in El
Salvador. However, public contracting of health providers and forning partnerships is still in its
infancy. During the early 1990s, the USAID-funded PROSAMI project developed a network of 36
NGOs to provide primary care to over 400,000 previously underserved populations. In independent
assessments, most received high marks for delivering high-quality care and for their institutional
capacity to manage and supervise basic services. Applying a rigorous assessment instrument,
GOES, with the Bank's support, recently performed a market analysis that identified 15 NGOs
with the capacity to deliver basic health and nutrition services. Most had participated in
PROSAMI. GOES has also expressed interest in implementing partnerships between MOH
providers and cooperatives, foundations, NGO, municipalities, and ISSS to provide basic care.
10



Initiate shift in institutional roles toward purchasing, oversight, and public goods: MOH is
locked into the day-to-day administration of an input-based system in which public finance i.S tied
to public provision. The Ministry's objective now is to develop the know-how to become a result-
oriented institution. In order to accomplish this, MOH will develop a purchasing function (0o
contract NGOs, cooperatives, and foundations; to form partnerships with other government
agencies; and to sign and manage performance agreements with MOH providers) while
strengthening its capacity to monitor and evaluate. In the short and medium term, the project will
aim to build up the capacity of the MOH to make effective purchasing decisions by contracting a
number of NGOs, foundations, and cooperatives with experience in providing basic care to
underserved populations. While MOH's purchasing capacity is being developed, there will also be
an emphasis on ensuring better performance among existing MOH providers. In the long term, as
capacity grows, the application of performance agreements and performance-based management
will lead to the separation of the MOH's purchasing and provision functions. The aim throughout,
however, is to ensure that the country's poor get the best possible health outcomes.
A key function that has not received sufficient institutional support is the production of public
goods and services. The project will seek to strengthen MOH's capacity in environmental health,
the control of vector-borne diseases (dengue, malaria, and Chagas), health promotion, the
management and disposal of toxic medical waste, and the prevention, detection, and control of
HIV/AIDS and STDs.
Set a roadmap for institutional modernization: The objective is to strengthen core functions of
the MOH, including extending essential health care to low-income populations, improving the
quality and efficiency of service provision, devolving responsibilities, developing a legal and
regulatory framework, strengthening MOH's stewardship functions, and forming partnerships with
NGOs. On these building blocks, the project will launch a change process for addressing broader
sector issues. This will be achieved by establishing an Institutional Modernization Benchmark
Matrix (See Annex 2b) to monitor and guide the institutional change process. By linking access to
resources for a subset of investments to the achievement of modernization activities and
performance benchmarks, the project will provide strong incentives for compliance that in turn will
facilitate the development and implementation of MOH's core functions. The benchmark-driven
investments are also a way for GOES and the Bank to track the change process, take stock of
progress, and reflect on it before new disbursements are made.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Proiect components: (See Annex 2 for a detailed description of project components; Annex 2a
for a detailed description, an analysis, and recommendations relevant to Component I of the
Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Netw-ork in Earthquake-affected Areas; and A rinex 3
for a detailed cost breakdown). The total costs of the project are US$165.7 million. The pro ject's
main objectives are to: (a) reconstruct and improve health sector infrastructure damaged or
destroyed by the earthquakes; (b) extend the coverage of health and nutrition services; and (c)
strengthen the institutional capacity of MOH to develop and implement policies and priority
programs for the health sector. To meet these objectives, the project supports activities in feur
components.
At the time the earthquakes struck El Salvador, preparation work for proposed assistance in
the health sector was well advanced. Because of the devastating impact of new earthquakes on
health sector infrastructure, the government requested that the Bank's emergency assistance be
concentrated on support for reconstructing and rehabilitating this infrastructure, while still focusing
on the key priorities of expanding access to basic health and nutrition services and improving the
quality of service provided to poorer groups. Several lending options were considered (Section D,
11



Project Rationale), but the government felt that a single project addressing health sector priorities
was most appropriate. Hence, the proposed project comprises several separate but interrelated
investment components: Component I: Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Network in
Earthquake-affected Areas and Component II: Strengthening Essential Health and Nutrition
Services in Earthquake-affected and Extremely Poor Areas. The project will also support
institutional development through Component III: MOH Institutional Development for Policy
Formation, National Priority Programs, and Support Systems and Component IV: Project
Management.
Project Components:
Component            Indicati % of    Bank         %
ve    total  Financing
Costs
1. Emergency           127.0  76.4%     109.2    76.6%
Reconstruction
II. Health and Nutrition   16.5   9.9%  14.2      9.9%
Coverage
III. MOH's Institutional  16.0   9.6%   13.8      9.7%
Development
IV. Project             4.8    2.9%      4.0      2.8%
Management, M&E
Total Project Costs    164.3  99.0%    141.2      99%
Front end Fee - 1i   1.4   1.0%      1.4     100%
Total Financing        165.7  100%      142.6    100%
Required             _= I
* Figures include contingencies, figures may be rounded.
Component I: Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Network in Earthquake-affected
Areas ($127.0 million)
Replacement and Rehabilitation of Earthquake-Damaged Hospitals: This project will rehabilitate
and/or replace seven of the largest hospitals damaged by the earthquake. Three of the seven
hospitals (San Juan de Dios in San Miguel, San Pedro in Usulutan, and Santa Teresa in
Zacatecoluca) will be rehabilitated and part of their equipment will be replaced. Four hospitals
(Matemidad Nacional in San Salvador, Santa Gertrudis in San Vicente, Cojutepeque in Cuscatlan,
and San Rafael Hospital in La Libertad) will be replaced. The hospitals in San Vicente and in
Cuscatlan sustained somewhat less damage, but two separate assessments concluded that their
functional obsolescence justifies replacing them. Altemative sites are being sought for two of the
hospitals to be replaced (Maternidad Nacional and Cojutepeque), as the first is in a congested
downtown area and the second is constructed on the slopes of a mountain. A third hospital (Santa
Gertrudis in San Vicente) will be replaced in the original hospital campus. Should any of the sites
currently being considered involve the resettlement of households, a comprehensive Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) will be prepared and implemented for each site (if needed) following a
Resettlement Framework discussed during negotiations. Preparation and implementation of the
RAP will be a condition of disbursement. An Environmental Action Plan was prepared during
appraisal and confirmed during negotiations, which aims to: (i) strengthen the environmental
capacity of MOH and MARN (Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources) to supervise
and monitor the construction and operation of the hospitals; (ii) ensure that the environmental
12



quality standards for the project's design and construction are met. (iii) follow current
environmental legislation; and (iv) strengthen the participation of local governments and civil
society throughout the implementation process. Rehabilitation will reinforce existing structures to
ensure that they meet current earthquake construction codes, which have been found to be
satisfactory. Replacement will occur in phases, which will make it possible for the facilities to be
partially used at all times, minimizing the need to locate or construct alternative temporary
structures. Functional analyses are being conducted to ensure that the replacement/ rehabilitation
efforts improve the internal functionality of each hospital and the flows within the health network.
Much of the medical and non-medical equipment will need to be replaced.
Corrective and Preventive Maintenance: MOH has designed an integrated maintenance program,
but it has only just begun to be implemented. The project will support the strengthening and
implementation of MOH's integrated preventive maintenance program by financing technical
assistance for the preparation and testing of maintenance protocols and manuals for the throe levels
of care and training of staff. The project will also support a comprehensive preventive maifltenance
program for the hospitals being reconstructed under this component. Counterpart funding will
finance the maintenance of buildings and equipment. New biomedical equipment will be tinder
warranty and, upon expiration of the warranty period, will be under service contracts.
The project will also support the small unit (IEU) within the MOH that will oversee the
implementation of this component, the monitoring of the component activities, and its supervision.
Quarterly technical and financial audits (special audit reports) of Component I activities will also
be supported.
Component HI: Strengthening Essential Health and Nutrition Services in Earthquake-affected
and Extremely Poor Areas (US$16.5 million)
This component aims to extend essential health and nutrition services to targeted geographical
areas by contracting and forming partnerships with NGOs, foundations, cooperatives, and
government agencies such as ISSS and municipalities, strengthening MOH providers, and
developing the planning, contract management, and monitoring and evaluation capacity of the
MOH. The quality and efficiency of publiclv financed essential health and nutrition services will
be improved and access to them expanded, with special emphasis on targeting low-income and
underserved populations particularly in El Salvador's Northern Region as well as vulnerable
populations living in municipalities of the Central and Para-Central Region that were affected by
the recent earthquakes.
Extending coverage of essential health and nutrition services in impoverished rural areas: In the
Northern Region, targeting mechanisms have initially identified the 73 poorest and most
underserved municipalities in the region's six departments. The total beneficiary population will
number about 150,000. Beneficiaries live in areas where no MOH providers are present ard, thus,
will be provided with essential health and nutrition services by NGOs, foundations and
cooperatives through the development of public-private partnerships. This component will finance
the per capita cost of providing essential health and nutrition services, estimated at $15 per year.
The per capita payment is configured to cover salaries, supplies, minor equipment,
pharmaceuticals, and transportation. The component will also support provider start-up costs
related to training and consultancies.
Strengthening MOH's primarv care delivery in earthquake-affected areas: By financing ol minor
equipment, essential drugs, and medical supplies, the project will support MOH care providers in
delivering basic care to about 200,000 beneficiaries living in earthquake-affected areas of the
13



Central and Para-Central Regions. These beneficiaries live in approximately 26 municipalities in
three Departments (Cojutepeque, La Paz, and San Vicente). These municipalities suffered major
damage in the recent earthquakes, and the health of the population is at risk given the precarious
housing conditions, damaged water supply, difficulties in access to care due to damage to the road
network and to health infrastructure, and reduced economic means to obtain care due to the loss of
productive activities in these areas. These populations will receive the same set of services
provided to their Northern Region counterparts but by means of strengthening MOH's primary care
provider network. The MOH has a strong presence in the Central and Para-Central Regions, but
service provision has been weakened as the result of earthquake-related damage.
Strengthening MOH's capacity to plan coverage extension, manage contracts and performance
agreements, and monitor and evaluate performance: The "downstream" success of the service
delivery activities will also depend on "upstream" interventions that reorient the MOH incentive
structure toward results. These interventions also represent an important first step in separating the
purchasing and provision functions within the MOH. To this end (and through the financing of
training, technical assistance, basic medical equipment, and instruments), the component will
support the implementation of a series of activities through a four-pronged strategy:2 (i) developing
planning, purchasing, and contract management functions; (ii) testing a reformulated
decentralization strategy and management model; (iii) strengthening MOH's monitoring and
evaluation capacity; and (iv) developing and testing an incentive scheme for MOH primary care
teams in the earthquake-affected areas and the Northern Region.
Component III: MOH Institutional Development for Policy Formation, National Priority
Programs, and Support Systems (US$16.0 million)
This component seeks to strengthen the capacity of MOH to perform stewardship functions related
to quality enhancement, health promotion, public health programs, disease surveillance, regulation,
and performance-based monitoring and evaluation. This will be achieved by supporting
investments linked to the adoption and implementation of an institutional strengthening and
decentralization strategy. This component creates a financial instrument that will provide an
incentive for modernizing the MOH's institutional capacity by linking compliance with two sets of
institutional modernization performance benchmarks to the financing of corresponding sets of
investments. Complying with a set of benchmarks will enable the Borrower to assess what
resources are available for financing seven investment areas: (1) environmental health; (2) the
management and disposal of hospital medical waste; (3) the control of vector-borne diseases; (4)
the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and STDs; (5) management systems; (6) information
technology; and (7) communication strategies. The investments share a common framework with
the objectives of the proposed project.
Institutional Modernization: The component will finance technical assistance, training, studies,
and study tours to build capacity to develop and implement modernization policies, instruments,
and strategies related to decentralization, health planning, community participation, the regulatory
framework, resource allocation, and financial management. Progress in these areas will be gauged
by compliance with a subset of benchmarks specified in the Institutional Modernization
Benchmark Matrix (IMBM) (see Annex 2b). The IMBM details modernization objectives and
corresponding implementation performance benchmarks agreed with the government in support of
MOH's institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy. As part of normal project
supervision, the Bank will review progress on complying with the IMBM benchmarks.
2 An action plan for each activity supported by this subcomponent is available in the project files.
14



This institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy sets the long-term mission, vision, and
objectives of a modernized MOH capable of carrying out core stewardship functions related t.)
sector policy formation. regulation, public health, targeting subsidies to the poor, and monitoring
and evaluation. From a more short-term, operational standpoint, the strategy contains the following
elements: (i) adopting a decentralization strategy that includes replacing current departmental
management units with health district units, known as SIBASIs, with clearly defined functions and
without raising MOH's administrative costs; (ii) developing and implementing instruments such as
performance agreements, contracts, and an incentive scheme to make health providers accountable
to both the MOH and the clients they serve; (iii) establishing a unit within the MOH capable (if
monitoring and evaluating health services and programs systematically; (iv) creating a purchasing
unit within the MOH with the capacity to draft, negotiate, and manage performance agreements
(with MOH providers) and service contracts (with non-governmental providers); (v) establishing
effective surveillance systems for vector-borne diseases and HIV/AIDS and STDs; and (vi)
introducing community participation in basic health and nutrition service delivery. The benchmarks
of the IMBM provide an implementation road map to guide the institutional modernization process
and to keep it on course.
GOES agreed to adopt and implement the institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy.
A draft strategy was discussed and reviewed during appraisal, and a final version is expected prior
to effectiveness. As detailed below and in accordance with specific IMBM benchmarks, the
adoption of the institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy is a condition for
disbursing the Phase I investments supported through this component, and the implementatiorn of
the strategy is a condition for disbursing Phase 11 investments (described below).
The design contemplates two IMBM reviews, each corresponding to compliance with a subset of
benchmarks therein. Compliance reviews and the corresponding release of resources will occur in
two phases, and disbursements for each will be conditional upon compliance with activities
detailed below. The Phase I review will occur in the first year of implementation, and the Phase II
review will occur in the second year.
MOH and the Bank have agreed to include the following sets of investments as part of Phase
Hospital and Medical Waste Management and Disposal (no. 2); Detection and Control of Vector-
borne Diseases (no. 2); Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS and STDs (no. 3); and
Communication Strategies (no. 6). These were selected during negotiations on the basis of their
current priority within the MOH's near-term horizon. As a condition for the disbursement of Phase
I investments., MOH will formally adopt an institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy
that: (i) contains the long-term mission, vision, and objectives of a modernized MOH; (ii) defines
the roles and competencies of health districts (SIBASIs) and eliminates Departmental Offices: (iii)
reassigns MOH staff to the to-be-established SIBASIs without increasing MOH's administrative
budget; (iv) applies performance agreements between MOH and SIBASIs; (v) uses performance-
based targets for MOH providers within SIBASIs; and (vi) prepares territorial health plans.
As a condition of disbursement for Phase 11 investments, three additional sets of investments, i.e.
Environmental Health Capacity Building (no. 1). Human Resource Management Systems (no. 5),
and Information Technology (no. 7), MOH will have to have implemented the institutional
strengthening strategy, presenting evidence of: (i) service contracts signed with at least five non-
governmental providers, covering approximately 75,000 people; (ii) completion of baseline surveys
for monitoring and evaluating the extension of basic health and nutrition services supported by
Component 11; and (iii) at least 3 SIBASIs functioning in earthquake-affected areas supported by
Component 11, including the signing of performance agreements with MOH, the preparation and
implementation of at least one territorial health plan, and agreement reached on terms and
15



indicators for the evaluation of SIBASIs.
Investments to strengthen MOH national priority programs: These investments include the
following:
1. Environmental Health Capacity Building: The project will strengthen the institutional capacity
of MOH's central department for managing environmental health and the central laboratory and
assist in decentralizing some functions to the local level. The project will finance training, technical
assistance, and basic equipment for the central level (communication and health education) and the
local levels (information, radios, health education, transportation, food monitoring, and protective
gear).
2. Management and Disposal of Hospital Medical Waste: The project will support developing
regulations and norms to implement national laws and policies on managing toxic medical waste,
assist in maintaining the waste management program currently applied in hospitals in the
Metropolitan Area of San Salvador, and apply similar acceptable procedures in hospitals
elsewhere. Financing will include technical assistance from international and national consultants,
training of all health facility staff who are involved in the various aspects of waste production and
management, and procuring and installing collection, treatment, and disposal equipment in the
hospitals reconstructed under Component I.
3. Detection and Control of Vector-borne Diseases with Emphasis on Dengue: The project will
help to develop a laboratory-based surveillance system as part of a national entomology
surveillance and control program, foster community participation in the elimination or control of
the larval habitats of the mosquito Aedes Aegypti, and train physicians and other health care
providers in early recognition of the disease. Financial project support will include technical
assistance by dengue specialists, basic laboratory equipment, vehicles, and training of health care
providers, laboratory personnel, and community leaders.
4. Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS and STDs: The project will support activities aimed at
strengthening the country's capacity to detect, prevent, and control the transmission of HIV/AIDS
and STDs. It will attempt to reach: (i) pregnant women in order to stress the importance of early
diagnosis in preventing mother-to-child transmission; and (ii) high-risk groups (such as people with
STDs, commercial sex workers, homosexuals, prisons, and street gangs). Support will also be
provided for the establishment of confidential testing centers and a confidential registry of HIV
cases and AIDS infections. The project will also support the installation of a national
epidemiological surveillance system for HIV/AIDS and STDs. The project will finance technical
assistance, training, minor rehabilitation of health facilities, the purchase of equipment, reagents,
pharmaceuticals, and information, education, and communication inputs (except for national
campaigns supported through investment no 6. below).
Investments to strengthen MOH support systems: These investments include the following:
5. Human Resource Management Systems: The institutional capacity of MOH will require
strengthening to support the delivery and purchasing of health care services, decentralized
management, monitoring and evaluation, and other changes in institutional roles. This will
necessitate modifying the roles and functions of health professionals and of administrative support
staff. The project will finance technical assistance in developing new and changed personnel
functions as well as training workshops and materials. It will also procure some furniture and
teaching equipment for training rooms in the hospitals and health centers.
16



6. Communication Strategies: A communication strategy will be designed and implemented using
inputs from health promoters and project communities to support the extension of coverage.
National multimedia campaigns on prevention and control of HIV/AIDS and STDs. dengue, and
other communicable diseases will be designed and run and their efficacy periodically evaluL ated.
The project will procure (by competitive bidding) the services of a specialized communica' ion firm
and a public relations firm, it will finance printed health education materials and radio and
television spots, and will pay for meetings, workshops, transport, and other related expenses.
7. Information Technology: The project will define the information needs of the managers to
make timely decisions, design a management information system accompanied by the necessary
communication technology, define the responsibilities of the human resources needed, and develop
the corresponding training plan. In support of the seven hospitals being replaced or rebuilt ander
Component I, it proposes computerized patient scheduling system, billing and collection s' stems,
and cost accounting systems. The project will finance technical assistance and new and
upgradeable hardware, software, and training.
Component IV: Project Management (US$4.8 million)
This component will support project management for Components II and III, including the design
and implementation of a system to monitor and supervise these two components. This corn ponent
will also support the impact evaluation of the project as a whole (including Component I), w,vhich
will include baseline and endline household surveys and issue-specific studies seeking solutions to
implementation problems, including qualitative as well as quantitative techniques. Monitoring and
supervision of Component I will be financed through Component 1. This component will also
finance annual audits for the whole project on a declining basis.. It will also finance conslitant
services, facilities, and equipment for the maintenance of the PCU and per diem for superv ision in
the field.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project will help to:
(i)    Rehabilitate damaged hospital infrastructure and improve functional designs with the aim
of better integrating them into a health network and improving efficiency;
(ii)   Implement a devolution policy that fosters autonomy in the management of resources at
lower levels and facilitates a shift to output-based financing;
(iii)  Introduce purchasing and contract management functions within MOH, augmentingl the
accountability of health providers for results;
(iv)   Institute public-private partnerships for health by supporting MOH contracting of non-
governmental providers;
(v)    Strengthen regulations related to quality standards, toxic medical waste disposal, and other
environmental issues; and,
(vi)   Introduce an outreach model for delivering essential health and nutrition services to poor
populations that is supported by organizational and delivery modus operandi that foster
accountability for performance through the implementation of performance agreements and
partnerships.
3. Benefits and target population
The benefits that are expected to result from the project include: (a) a reconstructed and improved
hospital infrastructure in the earthquake-stricken areas; (b) effective extension of coverage of
17



essential health and nutrition services to poor and underserved populations leading to improved
health and reduced overcrowding in facilities serving MOH users displaced by the earthquake; (c)
increased quality and efficiency in the delivery of publicly financed health services; (d) increased
GOES spending on health care for low-income populations; and (e) the establishment of a process
of institutional change that strengthens key stewardship functions within the MOH. The number
of people served by the seven hospitals included in the project is close to 3 million. Given that the
hospitals have, for the most part, been evacuated, the project will re-supply services to a population
that is currently underserved and will result in greater coverage, given the improved technologies
and designs that will be introduced. The coverage extension effort supported through Component II
will initially be targeted to 73 mainly rural municipalities located in the country's impoverished
Northern Region and to 26 municipalities located in the Central and Para-Central Regions. It will
benefit approximately 350,000 Salvadorans with an emphasis on women and children. Services
will include well baby care including the promotion of growth monitoring, pre- and post-natal care,
curative care, the provision of essential drugs, and the prevention of STDs. It is expected that child
malnutrition will be reduced by 20 percent and effective coverage of pre-natal and well-baby care
will increase by 20 percent in targeted communities.
Beneficiaries in the Northern Region will be targeted through a three-step process, combining
geographical and household selection mechanisms. First, 73 poor and high-priority municipalities
have been initially identified through composite poverty (MIPLAN, 1992) and "vulnerability"
(food security, environment, education, and health) indices (PMA, 1999). Second, based on a
recent population-based survey (MOH, 2000), the project will target municipalities with high
indices of underweight children. These municipalities will be selected for the first "wave" of
coverage extension. Finally, within the geographically targeted municipalities, households will be
identified through a mapping exercise conducted by contracted providers. This exercise will
identify "at risk" households as well as assess problems related to access and utilization of services.
In the Central and Para-Central Regions, three mechanisms applied to target beneficiary
municipalities include: indices of destroyed housing (averaging 70 percent of housing destroyed),
incidence of malnutrition (high or very high), and location within catchment areas of hospitals that
will be reconstructed with the support of project financing (Component I).
Turning to MOH modernization, the project will support the efforts of GOES to implement a
gradual institutional modernization process. The project will avoid system-wide transformation and
craft a more targeted approach aimed at strengthening the stewardship functions of the MOH.
Strengthening the MOH's capacity to set and enforce minimum quality standards for health care
providers, monitor and evaluate health programs, provide technology oversight, conduct effective
disease surveillance and implement health promotion interventions will benefit the entire
population, as well as pave the way for further improvements in the future. Contracting-out service
delivery through competitive bidding and performance-based contracting will result in a more
pluralistic provider market and contribute to improving the efficiency and quality of all health care
providers. Finally, reorienting the decentralization process while implementing mechanisms such
as performance agreements and information systems will strengthen the accountability and staff
productivity of MOH health services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation Period: Five years.
Executing Agencies: The Ministerio de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social (MOH) will have the
overall responsibility for implementing the proposed project. MOH will establish two separate
PCUs, one directly responsible for the implementation of Component I, hereafter referred to as the
IEU (Infrastructure Executing Unit) to differentiate it from the PCU (as it will be referred to) for
18



Components II through IV. The IEU will have the responsibility for implementing Component I
while the PCU will be responsible for implementing the remaining components. The IEU will
coordinate closely with the PCU for Components 11, III, and IV, and both will report directly to the
office of the Ministry of Health. The two units will share a financial unit.
Infrastructure Executing Unit (IEU) for Component I: The IEU will represent GOES-MOH in
any communications with the Bank and will supervise the legal, technical, and administratire
aspects of construction as well as Construction Management Firm contracts. It will be an
independent unit with separate reporting arrangements within the MOH. The lEU will consist of a
high level, full-time civil engineer or architect or other professional with experience in managing
construction contracts, with ample management and construction experience, and experience with
Bank procedures. He/she will head the IEU and will be assisted by a part-time legal counsel (on
retainer). Assigned staff within the project's financial unit will manage financial aspects. Thie staff
will be hired with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The unit will be comprised of fou- staff
to conduct procurement and financial management activities as described in Annex 6. The terms of
reference for the head of the IEU and the head of the financial unit were agreed upon during
appraisal.
In order to ensure fluid and opportune implementation of this component, agreement has been
reached with GOES to subcontract out the implementation of the activities in Subcomponent l.a
(Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Hospital Infrastructure) to a private construction
management firm (CMF). MOH will select and contract the CMF using Bank Consultant
Guidelines under terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank during appraisal and
confirmed during negotiations. The CMF will function as the implementing entity, preparing or
providing recommendations in bid awards/contracting, drafting and processing construction
contracts, and paying for contracts to MOH. The MOH will be responsible for appropriate decision
making and final signature. MOH's counterpart, the IEU, will verify the CMF's compliance with
its contract and maintain the flow of information with the Bank. The preparation of the shorilist and
letter of invitation for contracting the CMF with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank is a
condition of effectiveness. The advertising for the coordinator and financial specialist positions for
the IEU was done prior to negotiations. The two staff members are expected to be under contract
by the time of the Board presentation.
Agreement was reached at negotiations as to actions to be taken to ensure rapid start-up once the
project becomes effective. Local procurement law does not permit the initiation of the bidding
process for the contracting of the Construction Management Firm until the Project has been
approved by the Assembly and signed. All that is permitted prior to effectiveness is the preparation
of the short list of firms and the draft letter of invitation. GOES agreed these would be completed
by effectiveness. They have also agreed to finalize preliminary designs and Environmental Impact
Assessments for Santa Gertrudis Hospital (in San Vicente) and Cojutepeque Hospital (in
Cuscatlan) by effectiveness, and that they would advance as much as possible on the activities on
the other 5 hospitals. (Article 5.0 1(e) has been amended to reflect such requirements for at least
two hospitals). Assurances were obtained that the necessary measures will be taken to ensure no
unnecessary delays are experienced in the bidding process. An Action Plan outlining the timing,
responsibility, source of funds and needed technical assistance that will be required to prepare the
studies and activities that have to be completed prior to effectiveness was presented during
negotiations and is included as an annex to the Minutes of Negotiations..
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for Components II, III, and IV. A PCU will be created to
coordinate and manage the activities of Components 11. III, and IV. The PCU coordinator w,ill be a
Public Health Specialist with ample management and training experience and experience in
19



coordinating complex intemationally funded projects. The Coordinator, reporting directly to the
Minister of Health, will be assisted by at least four technical consultants in charge of coordinating
activities for these components, including project monitoring and evaluation and administrative and
financial management. Hiring the Coordinator and the four key technical staff is a condition of
effectiveness. The Administration and Finance unit will include seven assistants who will be
responsible for the budget (one person), accounting (two), and treasury/disbursements (two). In
addition, the unit will have two full-time procurement specialists and at least three assistants to
ensure that there are no delays in procurement processing. All technical staff will be contracted
through a human resources evaluation firm. Administrative staff will be selected according to local
procedures that have been assessed as acceptable to the Bank. Competent and experienced staff
will be engaged in the administrative-financial areas of the PCU in financial management,
procurement, and disbursements to ensure a high degree of performance and increased
accountability in project management. (Annex 6b contains a diagram of the project's institutional
arrangements).
Implementation Arrangements
Component I will have separate implementation arrangements designed to ensure the effective
implementation of the project's reconstruction activities. The CMF will function as the
implementing entity, leaving decision-making on bid awards/contracting, requests for
disbursement, and payment for contracts to MOH. The firm will: (a) review final designs
provided by MOH; (b) prepare a construction procurement plan; (c) prepare technical
specifications; (d) prepare and conduct the bidding processes for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the hospitals (a member of the IEU will be included in the evaluation committee to
make an award recommendation to MOH); (e) verify the equipment inventory prepared by the
MOH; (f) prepare an equipment procurement plan; (g) prepare technical specifications for
equipment; (h) prepare and conduct the bidding processes for equipment (a member of the IEU
will be included in the evaluation committee to make an award recommendation to MOH); (i)
prepare contracts for contractors and supervise their work; (j) prepare payment orders and their
documentation for contractors; (k) prepare contract amendments and the necessary documentation;
(I) manage breach of contracts and contractor complaints; (m) maintain contract accounts and
contract management reports in a manner acceptable to the Bank; (n) prepare periodic reports for
physical/financial and procurement plan monitoring; and (o) prepare all technical and financial
reports requested by GOES, MOH, and the Bank. The contract with the CMF will give it full
responsibility for the quality of the construction and the opportune implementation of contract
schedules. It will be responsible for contracting the necessary inspectors.
The role of the Infrastructure Executing Unit (IEU) in MOH will be to draft and process
construction contracts, review documents prepared by the CMF for completeness, forward the
necessary documentation to the Bank to ensure that it has no objection, and when necessary, to the
Office of the Minister for signature, and organize consultations with relevant MOH staff.. The IEU
will also spot check and verify the information provided by the firm in its technical and financial
reports and also manage the project account of Component 1.
For details on the steps and issues that need to be addressed in the implementation of this
component, refer to "Component Implementation" in the Technical Annex (2A).
Components II-IV. The PCU for Project Components 11, 111, and IV will coordinate the
contributions of the line departments in the MOH based on an Annual Action Plan (POA) agreed
with the Bank, including having direct responsibility for preparing progress reports to support
outcomes/results agreed in the Institutional Modernization Benchmark Matrix. The proposed
20



composition of technical and administrative-financial coordinating areas in the PCU wil] ensure a
consistent and coherent implementation of the POAs, while avoiding the creation of parallel
structures within MOH. The PCU's principal functions include: technical coordination, component
supervision, procurement and financial administration, and technical assistance functions lo line
staff. Procurement for Components II, III, and IV of the project will be handled by the P(:I U as
outlined above. Should major delays be experienced, MOH will seek the services of a Prn:curement
Agent (PA) to handle all contracting and payments required for the implementation of Components
II-IV. The PA will follow procurement and disbursement procedures agreed with the Bank.
Project Monitoring, Supervision, and Evaluation
A Technical and Financial Auditing Firm will be selected on a competitive basis to monitor the
performance of the IEU and the CMF. In order to increase transparency of all activities, this firm
will report directly to the Office of the Minister as reflected in the organization chart. TORs for this
firm were presented during negotiations
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will assess project performance in meeting project
objectives and achieving the desired outcomes and outputs. It will collect and analyze data for the
indicators in the logical framework and other variables needed to monitor project activitieii. To
address these questions, the M&E system will consist of the following components: (i) M&E
strategic plan: (ii) monitoring; and (iii) evaluation.
M&E Strategic Plan (see Annex 2e for a more detailed description of M&E system): Dturing the
first year of implementation, the borrower will prepare a framework and action plan for evaluating
impact and monitoring program processes and outputs. It will detail the objectives and meohanisms
for carrying out the monitoring and evaluation of each component. Monitoring will include: a
computerized management information system to track progress on activities, community
monitoring, and field supervision. Evaluation will include both a mid-term formative evaluation
and an impact evaluation, including baseline and endline measures. The impact evaluation
framework will specify expected outcomes. performance indicators, evaluation designs, data
collection approaches, and analytical methods for evaluating project outcomes. Within one year of
start-up, the borrower will have completed baseline surveys for all project-supported activ Lties,
according to the monitoring and evaluation plan. A monitoring framework will detail the
management-oriented activities, processes, and products that project managers are accouniable for
delivering to target populations, MOH authorities, and the Bank. The aim of monitoring will be to
make information collection, analysis, and feedback a systematic and routine activity. In addition
to the above, sources of information will also include observations made during supervisicn field
visits, existing and to-be-implemented management information systems, disease surveillance
systems, and population-based surveys such as the Demographic & Health Survey. Qualitative
methods will also be used to obtain information on beneficiary conditions and perceptions; related
to implementation processes and service quality.
Monitoring will be conducted separately by the PCU and IEU, and separate reports will be
prepared and submitted to the Bank. Component I monitoring information will be gathered by the
CMF implementing Component I, which will prepare and submit trimestral monitoring infDrmation
to the IEU to send to the Bank. The PCU will prepare monitoring reports for the other
components. Evaluation studies will be conducted by the PCU for the whole project.
Procurement Assessment
A preliminary capacity assessment was carried out during appraisal. It concluded that at present
21



the MOH does not have adequate institutional arrangements to carry out procurement in the IEU
and in the PCU. Given that GOES has decided to have the PCU handle procurement for
Components II-IV directly and build internal capacity, it has agreed to contract at least two highly
capable procurement specialists and three assistants to handle the project's procurement needs. It
will consider contracting a Procurement Agent (PA) should significant delays occur. It will
contract the PA directly and is willing to cover the agent's fees with counterpart funds. The risk
factor in the assessment is set at medium in view of the agreements reached regarding staffing and
the qualifications of the CMF. Procurement arrangements are described in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for reiection
The project preparation process has included discussion and analysis of a number of altematives.
Two key dimensions were considered. First, what is the appropriate lending instrument to be used?
Second, what is the appropriate strategic focus for the project design? Subsequently, when GOES
requested emergency support for the reconstruction of hospitals, the discussion centered on
whether to prepare a separate emergency operation or to include an additional component in the
health project that was already being prepared. The alternatives considered and the justification for
accepting or rejecting them are outlined below.
Free-standing Emergency Project versus an Additional Reconstruction Component in
Current Operation. Initially, the hospital reconstruction component was conceived as a free-
standing emergency project to ensure faster processing and approval. The latter alternative was not
selected to avoid de-linking reconstruction from other sector interventions supported by the project.
For example, decisions regarding the nature and location of hospital services to be provided would
depend on volume and quality of ambulatory services offered in each facility's catchment area.
These latter services would be strengthened through project-financed activities. Excluding the
primary care network from the functional definition of hospital activities could result in a mismatch
between supply and demand for hospital services as well as disintegration of the broader delivery
system.
Parallel versus Joint Financing: Parallel financing, rather than joint or pooled financing with
other donors, has been chosen as the project's mechanism because, unlike sector programs
elsewhere, moving toward budgetary support is not a main focus of this project. Also, the proposed
project is more narrowly focused, requiring speedy disbursement to finance works, service
delivery, and institutional strengthening. This would not be possible if joint implementation
arrangements had to be developed and agreed upon with other donors. In the case of hospital
reconstruction, parallel financing is also the most practical option, given the different processes,
requirements, and timing that each of the bilateral funds will entail.
A Single Investment Project, Sector Adjustment Lending, or Program-based Lending: The
project's objectives and design are sufficiently clear and focused that they can be tackled by a
traditional investment operation. The need to support the rebuilding effort quickly and effectively,
to extend basic care and nutrition services, and to initiate institutional modernization efforts aimed
at strengthening MOH core functions signaled the need for the targeted focus that an investment
loan offers. Program-based lending tends to deal with broader issues, and it was decided that an
investment loan would provide strength and support for the effective implementation of
institutional strengthening and decentralization strategies. At a later stage, once results have been
demonstrated, program-based lending may be considered.
22



2. Manor related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing, and planned)
Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
. ev.
Implementation   Oeve
Sector Issues                     Project                Progress (IP)    (DO)
Bank-financed
Social Sector Rehabilitation   Social Sector (Loan 3348-ES)          HS          HS
Project closed in September 1996   _              _   _
Earthquake Reconstruction      Multi-sector Earthquake                U           S
Reconstruction (Loan 2873-ES)
Project closed June 30, 1996
Other development agencies
GTZ                            Health Sector Support (6.0 million
DM)
IDB                            Modernization of MOH (US$28.5
million)
PAHO                           Health Systems Development and
Modemization (US$4 million)
Health in Development (US$1.8
million)
USAID                          Healthy Salvador, SALSA
(US$38.5 million)
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The project's design incorporates lessons of experience from previous reconstruction projects and
from health and broad social sector operations. Key lessons from a previous earthquake
reconstruction project in El Salvador indicate that a strong implementation unit is key to success
(Ln. 2873-ES). Effective implementation requires an effective coordinating entity with clear
authority. Moreover, the project's design should be kept simple. Experience with other emergency
operations elsewhere (OED Precis # 174, 1998) echoes the same lessons, stressing the need to
ensure that all designs are reviewed by stakeholders (IEU/MOH and the CMF) prior to the bidding
process to reduce variations in future contracts. To ensure timeliness, the implementing agencies
should take into account the scope and complexity of the work, and the capacity of the local
contractors in estimating construction periods for executing the project. Damage and needs
assessments should be undertaken prior to effectiveness.
A review of supervision reports for El Salvador as well as the ICR for the Social Sector
Rehabilitation Project (SSRP- 1992-96) (Report No. 16774) sheds light on a number of important
guidelines for optimizing the project's results. Uneven commitment to organizational change under
the SSRP led to less than robust results in improving supervision, maintenance, and information
23



systems in the MOH. The review concluded that future expansion of services would require
revamping the delivery system, including reorganizing the financing and management mechanisms
that support service delivery.
In 1997, the Bank and IDB prepared a joint project oriented toward sector-wide reform, but
because of weak leadership and lack of commitment among public health institutions, the project
never came to fruition. The key lesson learned from the defunct project is that sector-wide
transformation will not occur rapidly, in part because it is important to increase the institutional
capacity of MOH before proceeding with reform. Nevertheless, the following lessons, which are
critical to the loan, can be identified:
* Flexibility. Joint government/Bank annual reviews of project progress were found to be
useful to maintain flexibility in implementation by adjusting components as well as to
provide implementation support to achieve objectives.
* Cost of transition. Implementation is often the most difficult aspect of a reform, unwittingly
reinforcing any possible internal opposition. The size of the loan and the nature of the
IBRD's technical support - including needed technical assistance under this operation -
provide El Salvador with a unique opportunity to overcome this obstacle.
* Well-defined project benchmarks. Institutional modernization performance benchmarks
linked to the release of a subset of investments should be clearly defined so that the
requirements are understood by all parties and can easily be monitored for compliance. The
benchmarks should lead the client along the critical path of institutional modernization by
encouraging the development and implementation of institutional modernization and
decentralization strategies.
X Develop sufficient technical and administrative capacity of the implementing agency to
facilitate adequate implementation. In previous projects, it was found that it was critical to
assess the implementing agencies' commitment and capacity prior to defining the project's
complexity. PCU personnel will be trained and closely supervised by the IBRD.
* Technical assistance can be improved by early preparation of terms of reference and
expert contributions to defining scope and products. A review of previous projects shows
that projects have often suffered from slow implementation due to disagreement over the
terms of reference and contracting of consultants. Under this project, detailed action plans
have been prepared and agreed with the government. These action plans specify critical
actions, expected results, and a timeline for each investment activity. They will provide a
valuable input into the preparation of annual implementation plans, procurement plans, and
terms of reference.
* Develop an adequate monitoring and evaluating system for the project. Projects benefit
greatly from baseline and follow-up surveys for evaluating achievements and performance.
During the first year of implementation, the project will develop an effective monitoring and
evaluating system, including the application of baseline household and provider surveys. The
objective is to have a system that will facilitate ongoing project management, as well as the
measurement of project outcomes and impact at completion. (See Annex 2e for the
monitoring and evaluation plan.)
24



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The government's commitment to and ownership of the project is very high. The government has
requested that the Bank concentrate its new lending for reconstruction assistance on restoring
operations in seven major hospitals by complete replacement, rehabilitation, or partial
reconstruction. Prior to the earthquakes, the Minister of Health had informed the Bank that the
poverty alleviation focus of the proposed project would support the "cornerstone" of his five-year
plan: the extension of essential health and nutrition services to areas of extreme poverty. The
project combines the poverty-reduction and reconstruction requests from the government and has
been prepared in consultation with a wide range of key sector players, including the Health Reform
Commission and Congress. Inputs from different stakeholders, from within and outside the MOH,
have been incorporated into project formulation. The proposed project fits in well with the
government's operational objectives related to health, as stipulated in GOES policy documents.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
El Salvador will benefit from the financial and technical assistance of the World Bank to
rehabilitate and replace seven severely damaged public hospitals, some of which are quite old,
functionally obsolete, and had already suffered substantial deterioration from earlier lack of
maintenance. First, the Bank's standards are high requiring detailed assessments (environmental,
financial, participatory, and the application of building codes). Second, building and equipping
hospitals is capital-intensive, and the Bank will act as a lender of last resort. Third, the Bank's
technical assistance will ensure that the rehabilitated and reconstructed facilities will have a high
degree of functionality, will be built according to international norms, will incorporate design
efficiencies that will reduce operating costs, and will assist in organizing programs of preventive
maintenance.
El Salvador will also benefit from the Bank's technical assistance in the proposed strengthening
and extension of essential health and nutrition services as well as institutional modernization. The
Bank's technical contribution will be in the areas of strengthening of MOH's capacity to carry out
core functions (such as public health programs, regulations, policy formation, and monitoring and
evaluation), decentralization, public-private partnerships, service purchasing and contract
management, development of equitable resource allocation formulas; economic and fiscal
evaluation; and the implementation of new, performance-based management arrangements for
public facilities.
Finally, the government will benefit from the Bank's experience in supporting reconstruction
within the context an ongoing sectoral investment program.
E. Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 122.7 million: IRR= 33.5 percent
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Other (specify)
Overall benefits outweigh investments nearly two to one. Over 10 years, the net present value of
the project will yield benefits of approximately US$122.6 million. With the exception of the first
several years, the project is expected to generate annual savings to the system that will outstrip the
investment costs, thereby paying for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is
25



estimated to be 33.5 percent, reflecting the high benefits relative to project costs. The cost-benefit
analysis, which gives the project a CBR of 1.76, will yield significant health benefits and economic
benefits for the population of El Salvador primarily through reductions in hospitalization costs,
mortality, morbidity, and the local resolution of patients' needs. Even when projected recurrent
expenditures generated by the project are considered, the stream of benefits shows that the project
will be deemed highly desirable and will be financially sustainable.
2. Financial (see Annex 5) NPV=US$ 1.9 million, first 5 years Million; FRR= %
GOES is committed to financing the proposed project's recurrent costs. Recurrent costs are
estimated at an average of US$34.1 million per year once the project is fully operational. The
project will also support the efforts of GOES to decentralize the MOH budget, to establish a more
equitable allocation formula, and to test mechanisms that link performance to payments.
Fiscal impact
The project's fiscal impact was assessed by expressing the project costs that were expected to be
financed by the GOES as a percentage of total MOH spending in the future. The project's fiscal
impact appears moderate. By the end of the 10th year (201 1), the expected incremental costs of the
project will amount to only 3 percent of MOH spending. This figure could be significantly higher
if the recurrent costs associated with the reconstruction of the seven project-supported hospitals
were greater than just depreciation. It is assumed that this will occur only if the government
decides to increase recurrent spending in these hospitals beyond the current levels and beyond
those that prevailed before the latest earthquakes.
3. Technical
A series of studies have been completed (some financed under a PHRD grant) or are underway that
will provide valuable inputs into the project's design. For the most part, these studies result in four
types of products: assessment, strategy, design, and action plans. The studies include: i)
assessments of infrastructure damage and the internal functionality of hospitals, rehabilitation
designs, and a functional analysis of the health network; ii) the clinical, managerial, and financial
capacity of health NGOs; iii) MOH decentralization strategies and practices; iv) MOH purchasing
capacity; v) MOH monitoring and evaluation capacity; vi) the detection and control of vector-borne
diseases; vii) the detection and control of vertical transmission of HIV/AIDS, viii) toxic waste
management in hospitals; ix) the reorientation of MOH's primary care delivery model.
4. Institutional
Executing agencies. MOH has very limited implementation and project management capacity. To
ensure fluid execution, two project implementation units will be established: (a) an Infrastructure
Executing Unit (IEU) for Component I and (b) a PCU for the other components. Component I will
be implemented by a construction management firm (CMF) selected competitively by MOH
following the Bank's guidelines. The IEU will represent the MOH during the execution of this
component under a Construction Management Agreement. The PCU will assume similar
responsibilities for managing the other three components. Given MOH's limited purchasing
capacity as evidenced by the procurement assessment, a Procurement Agent may be contracted if
significant delays are experienced during the first year. GOES prefers to contract capable
procurement staff for the PCU and slowly build internal capacity. Monitoring and evaluation of
the coverage extension effort and the project as a whole will be contracted out and subsequently
26



transferred to the MOH once such capacity is established. The firm will also be responsible for
building MOH's capacity for monitoring and evaluation.
Project Management. The project will be managed by two distinct units, IEU and PCU, aw
outlined above. In view of the intensity of activities and efforts required in Component 1, CGOES
agreed to strengthen project management with the assistance of a CMF that will be responsible for
the implementation of Component 1. Terms of Reference for the CMF have been agreed with
GOES at appraisal, as has the staffing of the IEU. The IEU staff will have a minor role in
implementation, basically functioning as MOH's representative to the Bank and as the techrnical
and financial link between the CMF and the Bank. A financial and technical audit firm repcrting to
the Minister will be contracted to conduct trimestral audits of the work conducted under all
components. The PCU, in contrast, will be heavily involved in coordinating and managing
Components II-IV, with full responsibility for project outcomes in these components, together with
MOH's compliance with the IMBM.
Procurement Issues. Procurement capability in MOH is very weak and limited to standard
purchasing activities of a public entity through its institutional procurement unit. In view of these
limitations, the PCU will be staffed with at least two very capable procurement specialists. \4OH
has agreed to contract a PA if project activities become significantly delayed. In the case of the
IEU, most documentation will be prepared by the CMF and thus no procurement problems are
expected.
Financial management issues.
Country Financial Management (FM) issues relevant to the project. The GOES faces various
obstacles that prevent operational efficiency and sound personnel management. This situation, in
addition to the limitations of MOH to implement procurement actions (see Annex 6 of the PA.D -
Procurement), has led to the proposed arrangements in which two specialized units within MOH
will be created for implementing the project sharing the same financial unit.
Audit compliance. As of the date of appraisal, there was only one project with an overdue audit
report in the country portfolio. No audit compliance issues relevant to the proposed project have
been identified.
Assessment. Since the project FM unit had not been established at the time of appraisal, thc
Bank's FM assessment concluded that the MOH did not have an adequate FM system specific to
the project in place. Implementation of the FM action plan will result in proper financial
management arrangements in place by the effectiveness date. Further details are found in ArLnex 6
of the PAD - Financial Management.
Flow of funds
Loan. Loan funds will be disbursed to a Special Account that, as is the current practice in El
Salvador, will be opened by the General Treasury Directorate (DGT) of the MOF for the MOH and
maintained in the Central Bank.
* Once a week, the treasurer of the project financial unit (USEFI) will send Fund Requirements
through MOH's financial unit (UFI) to the DGT in accordance with the amount of documents
pending payment ("Accrual Report"). Fund Requirements and Accrual Reports are identified
by particular numbers.
27



*  Special Account funds will be transferred to the USEFI's Operational Account through
MOH's institutional account (this is a "bridge" account from which electronic transfers are
made to the operational account on the same day of- or the day after - receipt). Each transfer
is identified with a Fund Requirement and Accrual Report.
*  The operational account will be used to issue checks or transfers to the providers of goods
and services identified in the Accrual Report.
*  Under the described arrangement, it is expected that the time lapse between withdrawal from
the Special Account and payments made to providers will be less than a week. In any case,
transfers from the Special Account can only be outstanding for a limited period of 30 days.
*   The monthly requests for disbursement submitted to the Bank will be accompanied by bank
statements of both the special and operational accounts in order to document the timely
transfer of resources.
*  Procedures for loan disbursements are summarized in Annex 6 of the PAD - Financial
Management.
Counterpart. As it was agreed in the Education Reform Project (Loan 4320-ES), the USEFI will,
until the completion of the Project, operate and maintain a revolving fund with a quarterly balance
equivalent to the counterpart funding requirements for the next three months of project activities as
provided in the annual budget.
The revolving fund will be used to issue checks or transfers to the providers of goods and services
in accordance with the counterpart financing percentages agreed.
Cost Sharing Issue: Because of the emergency nature of this operation, and the potential impact
of the Government's reconstruction expenditures on the provision of counterpart funding, the
proposed loan will finance 86% of project expenditures (or 53% of the Government's
reconstruction expenditures). This is above the normal cost sharing for El Salvador, but follows
the provisions of OP6.30, which allows for increased cost sharing under emergency operations.
Project financial reporting arrangements. The quarterly financial statements will include the
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds and the Special Account Reconciliation Statement. These
project financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the
Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs), will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the
end of each reporting quarter. PMRs will be used for reporting, not disbursement, purposes.
For the purposes of the Bank, the annual financial statements will include, in addition, the schedule
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal
Applications.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of
refe;ence (TORs), both acceptable to the Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on project
financial statements, Special Account, and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), special purpose
reports will be required to deal specifically with: (i) the observance of the procurement and
consultants' services provisions of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) the physical inspection of the
reconstruction/ rehabilitation works.
The memorandum on internal controls ("management letter") and the special reports mentioned
above will be issued on a quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank no later than three months after
the end of the quarter.
28



The project annual audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than six month, after the
end of the reporting period (which coincides with the calendar year). The cost of all audits will be
financed under the loan on a declining basis.
5. Social
Three social development issues deserve special attention: (a) the extreme vulnerability of the
country to natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, droughts, and earthquakes; (b) ineq ualitv of
access to health services and, hence, unequal health status; and (c) growth in behavioral-based
diseases in adults, such as HIV/AIDS. Social development outcomes will include: (a) a reduction
in poverty as a result of increased access to health interventions; (b) the strengthening of c.ivil
society as a result of allowing NGOs to become service providers and the enhancing women's
health status as a result of the expansion of reproductive health services and HIV/AIDS prevention;
and (c) the enhancement of social risk management by strengthening informal and formal health
care. The design of Components II-IV of the project benefited from extensive consultation with
focus groups in 23 communities complemented by interviews with key leaders and commlnity
health stakeholders, including health promoters, NGOs, teachers, and institutional stakeholders.
Stakeholder participation in the preparation of the project will benefit its implementation. the
involvement of communities and NGOs will be crucial especially as community participalion is
intrinsic to the success of the Basic System for Comprehensive Healthcare (SIBASI) model. Health
NGOs will be partners in the main activities designed to expand coverage in the Northern Region.
The M&E system includes all key performance indicators. Beneficiary assessments and surveys on
users' satisfaction in the Northern, Central, and Para-Central Regions will be part of a base line
evaluation and will be updated periodically. There are no indigenous people living in the project
areas.
Annex 2c presents additional details on social assessment.
6. Environmental assessment          Environmental Category      I A   [XI B    I ] C
Given that compliance with many of the requirements of the Bank's Environmental Assessment
Policy (OP 4.01, Para. 13) prior to effectiveness will prevent the timely achievement of itR
emergency objectives, this policy will be complied with as part of project implementation All
issues that will need to be addressed and their timing are reflected in a detailed framework and
action plan for dealing with environmental and related social issues. This plan was agreed with the
government. To ensure compliance, all necessary Environmental Impact Assessments and
associated studies are conditions of disbursement for Component 1.
Potential environmental impact is expected from this project in two general areas: (i)mar,agement
and disposal of medical waste and (ii) the reconstruction process, including resettlement. B3oth
areas were assessed through field surveys and a review of relevant legislation. The first issue will
be addressed by implementing a waste management program in each of the seven hospitals that
will be financed under Component I. As described below, only about 36 percent of hospital waste
is currently managed adequately and thus, the project is rated a B. The steps to be taken to ensure
that environmental and resettlement issues are adequately addressed are outlined in Anne>.. 2d,
Part 2.
29



Medical Waste Management: The project preparation team reviewed the country's existing legai
instruments and regulatory framework for managing medical waste and found that they support the
national policies on environmental protection. The team also assessed current practices through a
national survey of hospitals and health centers using a systematic sample of 19 facilities. (See
Annex 2d for detailed survey results.) Hospitals in the metropolitan area of San Salvador (AMSS)
have an adequate hospital waste disposal system. Toxic medical waste is separated, collected,
packaged, internally and externally transported, centrally stored, disinfected thermally by
autoclave, and disposed of according to acceptable procedures. There is no program to manage
toxic medical waste outside AMSS. Estimates of the quantity of toxic medical waste generated in
the country are 5.8 tons per day (using an average rate of 0.65 kg per bed per day) of which 45
percent corresponds to the AMSS, which is estimated to treat 80 percent of its waste correctly.
This means that only about 36 percent of the toxic medical waste generated in El Salvador is
managed adequately. Therefore, the project is rated B. All hospitals reconstructed under
Component I will follow the acceptable AMSS model, but close attention will be paid to its
affordability as cost is estimated at between US$0.40 and US$0.60 per kilogram, resulting in a cost
of $720 to $920 per ton collected, treated, and properly disposed of in a sanitary landfill.
The action plan for implementing a national program for managing hospital medical waste and
disposal (copy in project files) proposes a short-term, medium-term, and long-term strategy. The
short-term strategy (one to three years) will consolidate the waste management program already in
place in the AMSS and will complete the existing regulatory framework with the drafting of
appropriate implementation norms as well as regulations for private sector companies that manage
and dispose medical waste. The medium-term strategy (three to five years) will install proper
medical waste management systems in the two hospitals to be rehabilitated and the five hospitals to
be replaced under Component I of this project. Technical assistance will also be provided to the
environmental health unit (GAISA) of MOH to assist hospitals that are not directly benefiting from
investments under this project in installing adequate waste management systems. The long-term
strategy will aim to put in place a toxic medical waste management system for the whole country.
Specific activities supported through the proposed project Include:
*  Revision of the waste management manual for hospital workers. The manual will address
procedures for hospital staff with regard to the handling, transport, treatment, and final disposal
of medical waste, as well as with regard to required equipment and inputs, with special
attention to the handling of sharp and pointed objects that are the main risk of viral
contamination inside hospitals.
*  Training. The survey showed that the medical and technical staff of health facilities outside
the AMSS view medical waste management as the responsibility of the housekeeping staff.
Therefore, training will be provided to all staff who are involved in the various aspects of
waste production and management.
*  Developing/revising/updating MSPAS norms governing medical waste in health facilities.
There are legal instruments and an official policy regarding the hazardous waste generated in
health facilities. However, the implementation of [check] regulations and norms governing
the various steps in the process of managing medical waste needs to be developed and revised.
*  Provision and upgrades of equipment. The project will purchase new waste management
equipment, if none exists, and replace outdated, inefficient, or unsafe equipment with safer,
more efficient kinds of equipment. The project will rehabilitate malfunctioning or inoperative
basic systems for water, electricity, and air conditioning, thus providing a healthier
environment inside the health facilities.
30



Hospital Reconstruction Process: The project will rehabilitate three hospitals and
reconstruct/replace four hospitals. Of the latter, two will require re-siting and a third will be rebuilt
on the same lot, next to the current structure. A field survey conducted during appraisal noted that
resettlement issues might need to be addressed in at least one of the cases. Should this be the case,
a Resettlement Plan based on the guidelines presented in the Resettlement Framework, as; agreed
between GOES and Bank during appraisal (See Annex 2D-Part 2) and confirmed during
negotiations, will be prepared. During negotiations, GOES agreed that any resettlements
precipitated by project activities will comply with Bank policies as stated in Operational [)irective
4.30 "Involuntary Resettlement." In addition, all hospitals will require environmental impact
assessments (EIAs), satisfactory to the Bank, indicating the measures to be taken to mitigate
adverse situations. These will have to be included in the final designs for each hospital
rehabilitation/replacement. Construction costs will include environmental mitigation measures that
address the direct effects of construction on the environment. Design costs will include th,e cost of
local consultations. Activities defined in each Environmental and Social Action Plan will be
financed by GOES. Thus, an EIA will have to be prepared for all seven hospitals, but these will be
tailored to each hospital. Also, those requiring re-siting will have to provide all of the necessary
information to address the issues outlined in the guidelines for environmental review included in
Annex 2D-Part 2, along with the Environmental-Resettlement Action Plan for the project In
addition to securing the Bank's approval of the EIA and ensuring that it is consonant wi6t current
environmental legislation in El Salvador, each of the seven reconstruction projects will need to
secure an environmental license as a condition for bidding for the construction of each facility.
The Environmental-Resettlement Action Plan (see Annex 2d Part 2) includes the preparal ion of: (i)
an EIA according to the guidelines and terms of reference agreed between the GOES and the Bank
for the environmental screening of sites for reconstruction hospitals; (ii) a resettlement plan
according to the guidelines agreed between GOES and Bank (see below); (iii) systems for the
management and disposal of medical wastes; and (iv) environmental specifications to guide the
application of environmental measures during construction. These specifications will be
incorporated into bidding documents for each facility, and their implementation will be financed as
part of construction. MOH, with the support of the Infrastructure Executing Unit (IEU), Nvill be
responsible for the implementation of the Environmental-Resettlement Action Plan identified
during the first stage of project implementation.
GOES has developed guidelines for resettlement that are less strict that those adopted by the Bank.
Ilowever, should the need arise to resettle households or commercial entities, GOES has agreed to
prepare a Resettlement Plan according to the Bank Resettlement Policy. The Bank team committed
itself to assist the Borrower in the preparation of this plan. The Borrower has agreed to fl:llow
Bank environmental and resettlement policies as per Bank Operational Policies 4.01 and 4.12
whenever policies are applicable. Each Resettlement Plan will include the following aspects: (i) a
justification for resettlement; (ii) the identification and socioeconomic assessment of affected
populations, including the extent of resettlement needed and the characteristics of the settlers who
need to be resettled (households, businesses, etc); (iii) a topographic analysis of the proposed site;
(iii) a review of land titling issues (if any); (iv) an assessment of the legal and regulatory
framework to support and justify proposed actions for each site; and (v) procedures for slte
purchasing, site improvements, and (if necessary) site expropriation. The IEU will be responsible
for preparing these plans and ensuring that the Bank has no objections, as a condition for bidding
for the construction of each facility. MOH/IEU will monitor the implementation of the resettlement
plans, submitting monthly reports to the Bank that highlight progress and the timetable ior
completion. MOH/IEU will also submit a final report with an analysis of the data contaitned in the
social-site data sheets resulting from the resettlement process. MOH/IEU will notify the Bank each
time there is a need to purchase new sites, attaching the corresponding purchase or resettlement
31



plan. IEU, in coordination with the MOH's Legal Department, will ensure that compensation to
those identified as part of the resettlement assessment process for each hospital will be established,
negotiated, and implemented as part of each hospital's Resettlement Action Plan, when required.
Before presenting each EIA, the IEU will inform the Bank of the minimum compensation value
considered and how that value was determined. GOES will be responsible for costs incurred in the
course of the implementation of the resettlement framework. The EIA that will be presented as
condition of disbursement for each hospital will include the funding allocation for the
implementation of the plans, including the handling of medical waste and the resettlement
framework.
7. Participatory approach
Hospitals will be understood to be community centers that include community involvement,
communication, and outreach activities. During the feasibility stage, the community's
characteristics and utilization patterns will be assessed. The results of this assessment will used in
the functional planning and service redefinition of each facility. During the design phase,
communities, local officials, and staff will be consulted in a systematic fashion to elicit opinions on
the proposals under consideration and to explain the rationale for the functional layout and service
definition of the proposed rehabilitated and reconstructed facilities.
The participation of stakeholders in the project's preparation and how they will participate in the
project's implementation are described above in the social assessment section. The project team
has consulted with all major donors through the Interagency Committee in Support of Health
Sector Reform and Modernization. It has also consulted with professional organizations,
community groups, NGOs, members of Congress, and the mayors of cities where the rehabilitation
and reconstruction activities will take place. The project will support consultations with community
members and health staff regarding the design of the rehabilitated and reconstructed facilities
supported through Component I. Also, the project will support the development and
implementation of a community oversight system to allow communities to participate in the
planning of services and in assessing the performance of providers. This system will be applied to
the coverage extension efforts supported through Component II.
A major operational objective of the project is to establish MOH-NGO partnerships as a means to
extend basic care to poor and underserved populations. The terms of MOH-NGOs contracts will
stipulate that the NGOs will establish links to community groups. Also, communities will form
watchdog organizations that will participate in monitoring and assessing NGO providers.
32



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will be sustainable because it enjoys support at the highest political levels and ils
formulation is a direct response to requests made by the government. Major sectoral stakeh(olders
have been involved in the project's preparation and will participate in the project's implemcntation,
thus ensuring country ownership. The fiscal impact of the investments has been calculated and
appears to be moderate; by the end of the I oth year (2011), the expected project incremental costs
will amount to only 3 percent of MOH spending. Agreement has been reached with GOES Io
subcontract out the reconstruction of the seven hospitals to a private construction management firm
to be selected competitively.
There are risks in attempting to reorient the MOH's internal structure and policies. The purchasing
of NGO services and establishing a purchasing unit in MOH will initiate a move toward separating
financing and delivery. This will require a different set of financial management structures.
instruments, and skills, and will transfer responsibilities away from the MOH provider netvN ork.
This represents change, which is often politically and administratively difficult. Another major risk
could be possible delays in Congressional approval of the loan. The project has already initiated
dialogue with several representatives in Congress to seek their input into the project's design. A
communication strategy has been developed for the project.
33



3. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
Risk                 Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Contracting of management frm is        H       Provide close follow-up to selection process
delayed
IEU not given sufficient independence   H       Ensure IEU financial processes are given
to move rapidly.                                adequate priority in MOH's UFI.
Inability to increase budgetary         M       Configure incremental steps for transferring
allocations                                     financial responsibility for care extension.
Sufficient implementation capacity to  M        Contract firms and institutions that will
move modernization process forward.             "partner" with MOH units to develop
capacity
Stakeholders willing to accept new     M         Communication strategy under
delivery model and MOH institutional            implementation. Dialogue with
reforms.                                         congressional opposition and professional
associations already initiated.
Sufficient leadership, oversight and   M        Establish an Executive Committee
technical support within MOH                    consisting of MOH authorities involved in
institutional modernization and coverage
extension.
From Components to Outputs
Election results do not result in sharp  M      Maintain dialogue with key stakeholders.
change in policy direction.
Sufficient capacity to coordinate and  M        Contracting of consulting firms to assist in
manage new delivery model                       implementation of delivery model.
Delays in start-up due to long          H       Dialogue established with congressional
Congressional approval process.                 opposition and mayors of cities where
infrastructure activities will take place.
Communication strategy under
implementation to gamer congressional
support.
Overall Risk Rating                    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Location of hospitals that need to be re-sited.
34



G. Main Loan Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
Appointment of the external auditors under TORs satisfactory to IBRD to carry out annual audits
for the entire project.
Definition of shortlist of firms and preparation of letter of invitation to hire the construction
management firm with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Completion of the environmental impact assessment and preliminary designs for at least two
hospitals, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
Staffing:
*  The coordinator, the heads of Components II, III, monitoring and evaluation, and the full
financial/procurement unit will need to be contracted with qualifications satisfactory to
IBRD, to be considered adequately staffed by effectiveness
*  Establishment of financial/administrative unit (USEFIs) for the project and its finarlcial
management system for each part of the project (Component I and Components ll-IV).
Establishment of the counterpart revolving fund and first deposit of $1 million.
Final version of the Operational Manual satisfactory to IBRD and its official adoption as a Guide to
Project Execution
Conditions of Disbursement
Disbursements for expenditures in Categories Goods and Works for construction and/or
reconstruction in Component I shall not be made unless:
(i) the Borrower has engaged the services of a Construction Management Firm;
(ii) the Bank is satisfied with: (a) the respective technical, economic, and financial feasibilty
studies for such hospital and (b) the Borrower's compliance with the environmental impact
assessment and involuntary resettlement requirements set forth in the Operational Manual in
respect of such a hospital;
(iii) the hospital design has been granted the required environmental license; and (iii) the land
required for the construction of new hospitals is owned by the MOH and is free of occupancs.
Disbursements for expenditures under Component Ilb b. I of the Project shall not be made unless the
respective Health Service Provider Agreements with NGOs and other entities have been signed;
Disbursements for expenditures under Component Illb of the Project shall not be made unless the
Institutional Improvement and Decentralization Strategy has been adopted by MOH in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and, disbursements for expenditures under Component ILIC of
the Project shall not be made unless the following actions have been taken in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank:
(i) the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the results of the monitoring and evaluation project
activities carried out under Component IIC of the project, including the results of the household
survey included therein;
(ii) the Borrower has signed at least five Health Service Provider Agreements to provide health
and nutrition services to at least 75,000 people in the aggregate;
(iii) at least three SIBASIS in earthquake-affected areas are operating in accordance with the terms
of the Institutional Improvement and Decentralization Strategy, and the related performance
agreements or arrangements have been signed between MOH's authorities at the central level and
the directors of SIBASIS;
3 5



(iv) MOH has adopted indicators satisfactory to the Bank to evaluate the performance of its
SIBASIS; and
(v) at least one regional plan has been prepared for the delivery of coordinated health services
within a cluster of departments and/or SIBASIS has been prepared and is being implemented in
accordance with the requirements of the Institutional Improvement and Decentralization Strategy.
Loan Covenants
* The Borrower shall not commence works for each hospital under Component I of the Project
unless and until the environmental impact assessment and the involuntary resettlement plan (if
needed), prepared pursuant to the Operational Manual, have been approved by the Bank, and
the actions provided therein have been adequately implemented for the relevant activities.
*  Adopt and implement an institutional improvement and decentralization strategy satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall consist, inter alia, of measures: (a) to gradually reduce MOH's
departmental offices; (b) to define the allocation of the existing administrative staff of MOH to
the SIBASIS without any increase in MOH's administrative budget; (c) to monitor the
performance of the services provided by the SIBASIS including, initer alia, entering into
performance agreements or arrangements with the SIBASI directors that specify quality and
coverage benchmarks; (d) to evaluate the performance of Health Service Providers; (e) to
develop and carry out health plans by regions or clusters of departments and/or SIBASIS; and
(f) to set and use benchmarks for the implementation of all such measures.
*  Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the implementation of the project and the
achievement of the objectives.
* Enter into an agreement with each Health Service Provider under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and substantially in accordance with the terms of the Model Health
Service Provider Agreement set forth in the Operational Manual that shall include, inter alia,
the performance indicators and other requirements applicable to the implementation of
Component 11 of the Project.
* Operate and maintain, until the completion of the project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a revolving fund in US
dollars with a quarterly balance equivalent to the counterpart funding requirements for the next
three months of project activities as provided in the annual budget and require sufficient annual
budgetary allocations for external and local funds needed for the project.
* Contract a technical and financial audit firm to conduct quarterly audits on physical and
financial progress in Component 1. Special purpose audit reports are required to deal
specifically with: (i) the observance of the procurement and consultant services provisions of
the Loan Agreement and (ii) the physical inspection of the reconstruction/ rehabilitation works.
*  The annual audit reports will be given to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each year. The quarterly special purpose audit reports will be given to the Bank within two
months after the end of the reporting quarter.
36



2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I l.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[X] 1 .b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready lor the
start of project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of a
satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Co- eam Leader: Gerard  artin La Forgia
Co-Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse
Sector Manager: Cha    Griffin
Counry  irecorXnnaDowsett-Coirolo
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
37



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                          Evaluation              Assumptions
Sector-related CAS  Sector Indicators:                                      (from Goal to
Goal                                                                        Bank Mission)
Minimize losses in    *   10% reduction in percent of   *  Ministry of Health    *  Consistency
health status to        underweight children            statistics              and continuity
vulnerable             (weight-for-age in children                              of the
population living in    under 2 falling below -2Z)  *  Pre-post HH              government's
the country's           compared to baseline in         surveys                 complementar
earthquake-damaged      targeted communities.                                   y social
Central and Para-                                             .                   1
Central Regions,    *  Out-of-pocket spending by        expansion of            programs
atu is povf ueseve      poor for basic care reduced     coverage efforts
populations             by 20% in targeted                                  *  HH behaviors
elsewhere, with         communities of Northern     *  Poverty                  and other
special emphasis on     Region.                        reports/assessments      factors
the poverty stricken                                                            influence
Northern Region.
38



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                         Evaluation              Assumptions
Project            Outcome/Impact Indicators:      Project Reports:        (From Objective
Development                                        Project Reports:        to Goal)
Objective:
1. Restore hospital   Seven rehabilitated and      Field visits, progress  Susta:ined
infrastructure and    reconstructed hospitals     reports                  economic growth
equipment          functioning fully.
damaged in the                                                             Consistency and
earthquakes        tmproved Hospital quality as    MOH statistics          continLiity of the
through            perceived by users                                      goveniment's
rehabilitation and                                                         social and poverty
reconstruction of    Seven hospitals with a        Rapid patient surveys   reduction policies
infrastructure and    functioning maintenance                              and programs
its preventive     program.
maintenance
Length of stay in rehabilitated and  MOH statistics
reconstructed hospitals reduce by
10%
2. Improve health    Vaccination coverage (DPT) for   *  Pre-post HH
status of targeted  children under two years           surveys
vulnerable         increased by 20% over baseline
populations in     in targeted communities;        *  Project evaluation
earthquake-affected   *  Number of pregnant women      studies
areas and poor         receive at least 2 prenatal
populations in the     checkups, iron supplements    *  Nutrition surveys.
Northern Region        and tetanus vaccination         National census;
and elsewhere          increased by 20% over
through extending      baseline in targeted
basic health and       communities.
nutrition services  *  Per capita contacts with
through                health care providers
community-based,       increased by 50% over
outreach programs      baseline in participating
communities.
*   150,000 people in Northern
Region and 200,000 in
earthquake-affected areas
reached by basic health and
nutrition services.
* Attendance at growth
promotion sessions of at
least 90% of eligible
children in participating
communities in the last
month.
39



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                         Evaluation              Assumptions
3. Strengthening   *  Implementation of total      *  Project evaluation
capacity of MOH        quality improvement            studies
to perform             strategy in obstetrics,     *  Outputs of
stewardship            gynecology and pediatrics in   functioning
functions related to   at least 5 hospitals           epidemiological
quality            *  Community knowledge of           surveillance system
enhancement,           Aedes Aegypti mosquito      *  Published
health promotion,      breeding control               regulations on
disease                mechanisms increased 25%        facility licensing,
surveillance, public   over baseline.                 toxic waste
health programs,   *  Solid waste management and       disposal, and water
regulation, and        disposal policy approved and    management
performance-based     implemented in at least 7        strategies.
monitoring and         hospitals and seven primary    *  MOH statistics
evaluation             care units.                    Pre-post household
*  Draft of reformulated health    survey
code prepared.
* Strategy for human resource
management approved and
implemented.
* 25% of pregnant women
identified as infected receive
treatment
* Voluntary HIV testing for
50% of women seeking STD
treatment
40



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                           Evaluation              Assumptions
Output from each                                                             (From Outputs to
Component:                                                                   Objectwve)
1. Restoring        *  Proportion of hospital       Project progress reports.   *  A capable
hospital                designs completed.                                       engineering
infrastructure and  *  Proportion of hospitals                                   consulting
equipment through       undergoing construction.                                 firTn is
reconstruction/     *  Proportion of civil works                                 sel-cted,
rehabilitation and a    completed.                                           *  The
preventive          *  Number of hospitals that                                  gov,/ernment's
maintenance             have purchased equipment.                                CUetent
program             *  Proportion of contracts that
have been amended for more                               programn
than 15% of original cost.                               anu expansion
*  Number of hospitals that                                 of primary
have trained specialist staff                            care
to conduct maintenance.                                  maintained in
timrre
2. Basic health and   *  Increased government        *   Signed performance   *  State
nutrition coverage      financing of basic health        agreements.             goverrnents'
extension in poor       services to cover costs of   *  Analysis of MOH          spending in
areas of the            basic health extension in the    budget and Ministry     health
Northemn Region         Northern Region.                 of Finance transfers    increased in
and Strengthening   *  Government and non-              to MOH from 1998         tirr e
of MOH primary          government providers fully      to end of project    *  Nc labor
care network in         trained and equipped in          progress reports        str kes by
earthquake affected     delivery of basic health and    *  Project's MIS         health
areas of the Central    nutrition services in targeted   *   Supervision reports  personnel
and Para-Central        communities.                 *  Project evaluation       opoosing to
Regions.            *  Purchasing of basic services      studies                 the new
implemented through the     *  Quarterly and             contracting of
signing of contracts with       annual management        N(GOs and
NGOs, foundation and            reports;                 performance
cooperatives in Northern    *  Semi-annual               contracts with
Region. departments to          supervision reports;     MOH public
cover at least 150,000 people   Mid-term reports;        fa ilities
with basic health and           Project completion
nutrition services.             reports.
*  Performance agreements
signed with at least 6
districts (SIBASIs) in the
earthquake-affected areas of
the Central and Para-Central
Regions to implement
outreach program to provide
basic health and nutrition
services to 200,000
beneficiaries.
41



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                         Evaluation              Assumptions
3. Strengthening   *  Investment prepared and
capacity of MOH        executed for hospital waste
to perform             management and disposal,
stewardship            environmental health,
functions related to   information technology,
quality                communication strategies
enhancement,           and management systems.
health promotion,    *  Management information
disease                system fully functioning to
surveillance, public   provide integrated health
health programs,       information systems
regulation, and    *  At least 3 SIBASI
performance-based      functioning according to
monitoring and         strategy agreed with Bank.
evaluation         *  Two additional voluntary
testing and counseling center
HIV/AIDS.
*  National surveillance
system established, and
program to prevent dengue
transmission implemented
with capacity to measure
changes in the geographic
and distribution and density
of the vector.
*  Implementation of
communication strategy on
the prevention and control of
HIV/AIDS and STDS and
dengue.
*  Monitoring and evaluation
unit established inside MOH
with capacity to
monitor/evaluate basic
health services and at least
two priority national
programs.
* Purchasing and financial
management unit inside
MOH established with
capacity to prepare, issue and
manage contracts and
performance agreements.
4 9     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                          Evaluation               Assumptions
Adoption and
implementation of an
institutional strengthening
and decentralization strategy
that (i) contains the long-term
mission, vision and
objectives of a modernized
MOH; (ii) the definition of
roles and competencies of
health districts (SIBASIs)
and the elimination of
Departmental Offices; (iii)
reassignment of MOH staff
to the to-be-established
SIBASIs without increasing
MOH's administrative
budget; (iv) at least 3
SIBASIs functioning in
earthquake-affected areas
supported through
Component 11, including the
signing of performance
agreements with MOH (see
above), preparation and
implementation of at least
one territorial health plan, use
of performance-based
management and supervision
for MOH providers within
these SIBASls; and
definition of methodologies
and indicators for their
evaluation.
43



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                         Evaluation              Assumptions
I. Emergency        $127.0                         *  Project MIS         *  Capable
Reconstruction of                                  *  Quarterly and semi-     engineering
MOH Hospital                                           annual reports.        consulting
Network in                                                                    firm is
Earthquake-                                                                   selected
affected Areas.                                                            *  High Quality
PCU staff are
*  Reconstruction                                                              hired
and                                                                    *  MOH allocates
Rehabilitation                                                             sufficient
of Earthquake                                                              funds for
Damaged                                                                    maintenance in
Hospitals                                                                  regular budget.
*  Corrective and
Preventive
Maintenance
II. Strengthening    $16.5                         *  Project progress     *  Sufficient and
Essential Health                                      reports                  timely budget
and Nutrition                                      *  Project's MIS            allocation
Services in                                        *  Semi-annual          *  MOH
Earthquake-                                            supervision reports;    enhanced
affected and                                           Mid-term reports;      technical and
Extremely Poor                                         Project completion      administrative
Areas                                                  reports.                capacity
*  Timely
*  Coverage                                                                    execution of
extension                                                                  strategy to
through                                                                    contract with
contracting                                                                NGO
with NGO                                                                   providers
providers                                                              *  Stakeholders
*  Strengthening                                                               inside and
MOH's                                                                      outside the
primary care                                                               system are
provider                                                                   open and
network.                                                                   receptive to
*  Strengthening                                                               new
MOH capacity                                                               management
to perform                                                                 arrangements
planning,                                                                  for public
purchasing,                                                                facilities
contract
management
and evaluation
functions
44



Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and          Critical
Objectives                                           Evaluation              Assumptions
III. MOH            $16.0
Institutional
Development for
Policy Formation,
National Priority
Programs, and
Support Systems.
*  Institutional
Modernization
*  Investments to
strengthen
MOH national
priority
programs.
*  Investments to
strengthen
MOH support
systems.
IV. Project         $4.8
Management
45



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
To meet the stated development objectives, the proposed project consists of four components:
1. Emergency reconstruction of MOH hospital network in earthquake-affected areas;
2. Strengthening essential health and nutrition services in earthquake-affected and extremely poor
areas;
3. Strengthening MOH institutional capacity for policy formation, national priority programs, and
support systems;
4. Project management and monitoring and evaluation.
Component I: Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Network in Earthquake-affected
Areas
(US$127.0 million). (See Annex 2a for a detailed description, analysis, and recommendations
relevant to this component). This component also includes operational costs for the IEU unit in the
amount of US$1.2 million) and for technical and financial audit services in the amount of US$0.9
million.
Subcomponent L.a.: Replacement and Rehabilitation of Earthquake-Damaged Hospitals
($122.7 million): The project will rehabilitate and/or replace seven of the largest hospitals
damaged by the earthquake. (See Tables I and 2 for summary information on these hospitals.) The
two earthquakes caused damage to 23 of 30 public hospitals. Fifteen suffered minor non-structural
damage while the remainder will require rehabilitation or replacement. This project will rehabilitate
three facilities (San Juan de Dios in San Miguel, San Pedro in Usulutan, and Santa Teresa in
Zacatecoluca) and reconstruct four hospitals (Maternidad Nacional in San Salvador, Santa
Gertrudis in San Vicente, Cojutepeque in Cuscatlan, and San Rafael Hlospital in Santa Tecla).
Although two of the aforementioned hospitals (Santa Gertrudis in San Vicente and Cojutepeque in
Cuscatlan) sustained somewhat less damage, two separate assessments have concluded that their
functional obsolescence poses a greater danger to patients than the damage caused by the
earthquakes and consequently necessitates their replacement. The National Maternity hospital and
the Cojutepeque hospital will be rebuilt but not necessarily on the same sites. Alternative sites will
be identified prior to negotiations, and assessments on the adequacy of the sites will be completed
by effectiveness.
Rehabilitation will reinforce existing structures to ensure that they meet current seismic
construction codes. Hospitals will be reconstructed in phases so as to permit partial use of facilities
at all times, reducing exposure to precarious temporary facilities and eliminating the need to locate
or construct alternative, less permanent structures. Functional analyses are being conducted to
ensure the replacement/rehabilitation improves the internal functionality of each hospital and the
flows within the health network.
Much of the medical and non-medical equipment in the seven facilities will need to be replaced.
Equipment will include cabling needed to install computerized management information systems
and the equipment needed to dispose of medical waste. The component will finance technical
assistance for the preparation of damage assessments, environmental impact studies, topographical
analyses, functional planning, and space programming as well as architectural and engineering
drawings. In addition to physical construction, the project will also finance medical and non-
medical equipment and furniture.
46



Table 1: Public Sector Hospitals to be Replaced[Rehabilitated
Hospital      Age (in    Degree of       Action          Pre-         Sq.      Population
years)    Damage*      Recommended   earthquake #   Meters       Slerved
of Beds      Built      (2001)
San Juan de Dios   25      Medium            Rehabilitate         540     19,586      331,683
in San Miguel
San Rafael in La    25-113   High          Partial rehab &        240     15,902      702,340
Libertad                                          replace
Santa Teresa in    35      Med/High           Rehabilitate        175     10,300      296,145
Zacatecoluca
San Pedro in      28       Medium            Rehabilitate         253     10,300      195,242
UsulutAn.
Santa Gertrudis in  3-153    Med/High    Replace on same          215      16,530     164,670
San Vicente                                          site
Cojutepeque in    35-175   Med/High        Replace and re-        105      3,380      182,602
Cuscatlan                                            site
Matemidad         20-48    Med/High       Replace and re-         344      13,163   Nattional -
Nacional in San                                      site                                only
Salvador                                    0__B/GYN
*Degree of Damage as reported by WHO/PAHO
Table 2: Hospital Statistics 1999
Hospital       Total    Dis-    Number    Medical   Emergency    Percent    Average
Staff  charges   of Patient  Outpatient    Room     Occupancy   I ength of
Days       Visits      Visits                   Stay
San Juan de Dios in   945   26,854    142,225    146,998         76,095      97          5
San Miguel
San Rafael in La      449    18,289     74,004      71,995       53,513      89          4
Libertad                                                                            _
Santa Teresa in       372    11,982     45,789      43,021       50,956      77          4
Zacatecoluca
San Pedro de          337    11,658     44,140      51,344       66,764      87          4
Usulutan
Santa Gertrudis in    394    10,275     38,003      44,980       35,081      80          4
San Vicente
Cojutepeque in        184    7,028      24,727      40,396       17,853      75          4
Cuscatlan
Matemidad             728   30,665     109,111      81,882       37,022      98          3
Nacional in San
Salvador
Source: MOH - Planning Directorate - Health Information Management Unit
Subcomponent I.b: Corrective and Preventive Maintenance ($ 3.1).
Poor maintenance of buildings combined with failure to apply strict construction standards during
the original building phases contributed to the extent of damage caused by the earthquakes. MOH
has designed an integrated maintenance program to address some of these deficiencies. This
program will be implemented in five phases: (a) training to sensitize staff who will be invoN ed in
maintenance activities; (b) preparing an inventory of buildings and equipment; (c) training all
generalist staff working on maintenance; (d) training equipment operators; and (e) organizing the
maintenance program, including the preparation of protocols and manuals for the three levels of
47



care. The maintenance department in each hospital is in charge of the planning, management, and
supervision of the program, but complex maintenance activities will be contracted out. However,
the program has only just begun to be implemented. To date, only the second phase and part of the
first have been completed, but supplies needed to repair and maintain equipment have not been
provided.
The project will support the strengthening and implementation of MOH's integrated preventive
maintenance program by financing technical assistance for the preparation and testing of
maintenance protocols and manuals and staff training for the three levels of care. The project will
also support a comprehensive preventive maintenance program for the hospitals being
reconstructed under this component. Financing for building and equipment maintenance will be
provided by counterpart funding.
Component II. Strengthening Essential Health and Nutrition Services in Earthquake-affected
and Extremely Poor Areas (US$16.5 million):
This component aims to extend essential health and nutrition services to targeted geographical
areas by contracting [and/or?] forming partnerships with providers affiliated with NGOs,
foundations, cooperatives, ISSS, and municipalities, by strengthening MOH providers, and by
developing the planning, contracting, management, and evaluation capacity of the MOH. The
quality and efficiency of and access to publicly financed essential health and nutrition services will
be increased, with special emphasis on targeting low-income and underserved populations in El
Salvador's Northern Region as well as populations living in municipalities affected by the recent
earthquakes in the Central and Para-Central Regions.
Service delivery will integrate health and nutrition services and will use a team approach with
outreach programs to the communities. The services to be delivered will focus on women and
children and will address a large share of the health needs of this population. MOH hospitals in the
area will provide required inpatient services to referred patients. In the Central and Para-Central
Regions, the project will support the development of management reforms in the reconstructed/
rehabilitated hospitals that will seek to complement activities aimed at strengthening the primary
care network. Here, the focus will be on establishing stronger links between hospitals and primary
care facilities.
This component takes into account the synergistic relationship between nutrition and health and
will integrate nutrition and health interventions to address the health problems of the beneficiary
populations more effectively. Health services will be provided to the entire population and will
consist of essential curative care, reproductive health and pre-natal care, and health promotion.
Nutrition will consist of growth monitoring and promotion activities directed to all children under
the age of two. Counseling will be directed to mothers and based on messages already being
developed in El Salvador. Services will be provided at different levels: health centers, referrals to a
backup hospital, and a community-based outreach model combining itinerant professional
personnel and community-based promoters.
Interventions to extend and improve the delivery of basic health services will be complemented by
activities aimed at establishing a management and accountability system that promotes and
demands accountability of health providers. Activities include establishing planning and
purchasing functions in the MOH, implementing a reformed decentralization strategy and
management model, and strengthening MOH monitoring and evaluation capacity.
48



Subcomponent II.a: Coverage extension of essential health and nutrition services in
impoverished rural areas ($8.2 million)
The basic health and nutrition package (BHNP) will be provided through community-based
implementation arrangements involving the contracting and partnering of "service providers" -
NGOs, foundations, cooperatives, and ISSS - with experience in providing health care. These
service providers will be responsible for a defined number of communities wkithin specified
geographical areas. All providers will give assistance, training, and supervision to their personnel
who are delivering services. Most providers will be contracted to provide the BHNP in targeted
communities located in the Northern Region. These services will be financed pursuant to a service
contract or partnering agreement. Contracted service providers will be selected through
competitive least-cost (price and quality) bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
as well as procedures set forth in the recently approved law N 868 Ley de Adquisiciones y
Contrataciones de la Administraci6n Plublica (LACAP), the national procurement law. Based on an
in-depth assessment of institutional capacity of potential service providers including their health
service delivery experience and financial and human resource management capabilities, MOH has
prepared a short-list of 15 qualified service providers that will be invited to participate in these
implementation arrangements. MOH will sign service delivery contracts with selected service
providers to provide the BHNP.
Targeting mechanisms have initially identified the 73 poorest and most underserved municipalities
among the region's six departments. The total beneficiary population will number about 150,000.
The beneficiaries live in areas where MOH providers are not present and will be provided w-ith
essential health and nutrition services by service providers through the development of public-
private partnerships.
This subcomponent will finance the per capita cost of providing a package of health and nutrition
services, estimated at $15 per year. The per capita payment is configured to cover salaries,
supplies, minor equipment, pharmaceuticals, and transportation. The subcomponent will alsc
support provider start-up costs related to training and consultancies. The training element will
support the preparation of health personnel contracted to delivery the BHNP, while consultants will
assist in the establishment of supervisory and reporting systems. To ensure the financial
sustainability of the extension effort upon the completion of the project, financing will be
transferred to GOES incrementally during the life of the project.
In an effort to hold contracted service providers accountable for their performance, the project will
reimburse them (using a combination of withholdings and bonuses) according to performance
benchmarks specified in the service contract with MOH. Service providers will assume (parlial)
financial risk for reaching (or exceeding) the benchmarks and as such, will have strong incentives
to improve management, to innovate, and to increase their responsiveness to the clients. This will
help to shift their focus from expenditure or inputs to achieving results. As mentioned below in the
section describing Subcomponent I1c, implementing this mechanism will require the creation of
strong contracting, monitoring, and evaluation capabilities within MOH.
Subcomponent II.b: Strengthening MOH's primary care service delivery in earthquake-
affected areas ($5.4 million)
By financing minor equipment, essential drugs and medical supplies, technical assistance, and
training, the project will support strengthening MOH care providers to deliver the BHNP to about
200,000 beneficiaries living in earthquake-affected areas of the Central and Para-Central Regions,
focusing initially on 26 municipalities in three Departments (Cojutepeque, La Paz, and San
49



Vicente). These municipalities suffered major damage in the recent earthquakes, and the health
status of the population is at risk given the recent reduction in economic activity, the precarious
housing conditions, and the decline in access to health services. Mechanisms applied to target
beneficiary municipalities include: indices of destroyed housing (averaging 70 percent of housing
destroyed), the incidence of malnutrition (higli or very high), and the location within the catchment
areas of hospitals that will be reconstructed/rehabilitated under Component 1. These populations
will receive the same set of services provided to their Northern Region counterparts but through a
strengthened MOH's primary care provider network. Unlike in the Northern Region, the MOH has
a strong presence in the Central and Para-Central Regions; however, their service provision has
been weakened as the result of earthquake-related damage.
This subcomponent aims to change the way in which populations receive essential health and
nutrition services through MOH providers. First, rather than be delivered in a fragmented and
uneven manner through vertical programs, the BHNP will be provided in an integrated fashion.
Second, rather than relying on a physician as the principal care giver, a team approach will be
developed. Third, rather than depending on facility-based provision, an outreach model will be
introduced that takes the services to the communities. Rather than using abstract norms to guide
clinical practice, feasible protocols will be applied. Implementation of activities will form part of a
broader initiative, supported through Subcomponent ll.c, to implement a reformulated
decentralization strategy and management model aimed at establishing an incentive structure to
improve MOH primary care provision.
Subcomponent II.c: Strengthening MOH capacity to plan coverage extension, to manage
contracts and performance agreements, and to monitor and evaluate performance (US$2.9
million)
The "downstream" success of the service delivery activities supported in Subcomponents II.a and
II.b will also depend on "upstream" interventions that reorient the MOH incentive structure toward
results. These interventions also represent an important first step to separating the purchasing and
provision functions within the MOH. To this end, this subcomponent will support a series of
activities through a four-pronged strategy:' (i) developing planning, purchasing, and contract
management functions; (ii) testing a decentralization strategy and management model; (iii)
strengthening MOH's monitoring and evaluation capacity; and (iv) piloting an incentive scheme
for MOH primary care teams.
First, through technical assistance and training, the project will support the development of
planning, purchasing, and contract management functions within the MOH to oversee contracts
with service providers as well as performance agreements issued to public providers. Here, the
focus will be on developing the processes and procedures for responsible purchasing, charting
plans and progress, selecting and evaluating providers, resolving conflicts and disputes, designing
and issuing contracts (for private providers) and performance agreements (for public providers),
and conducting financial reviews. These functions will be developed and implemented in the MOH
through a "partnering" modality. This will consist of hiring a private firm or institution to perform
these functions during the early stages of implementation while strengthening MOH capacity.2
Through technical assistance and training, the firm will be responsible for establishing the
organizational structures and fashioning the know-how to perform the functions within the MOH.
' Action plans for each activity supported by this Subcomponent are available in the project files.
2 The team contemplates a firm for planning, purchasing, and contract management and another for
monitoring and evaluation.
50



Gradually, responsibilities will be transferred to the MOH as the firms take on an oversight and
technical backstop role. Considerable emphasis will be placed on increasing accountability and
transparency within the MOH.
Second, MOH and the Bank have agreed to an overall decentralization strategy and management
model to improve the organization and provision of MOH-provided primary care services. [his
strategy will be piloted in the Central and Para-Central Regions in support of activities to
strengthen MOH primary care services there (Subcomponent II.b). It will consist of the following
elements: (i) the development of region-specific health plans that prioritize health needs and
corresponding activities, specify regional objectives, define institutional responsibilities for
meeting the objectives, delineate referral systems, set clear and feasible performance indicators,
and guide the design of performance agreements; (ii) the decentralization of managerial
responsibility to organized and area-specific networks of primary care provider units that are
accountable (to the MOH and clients) for the provision of BHNP; (iii) each network will be headed
by a small management unit in which administrative costs will not exceed 2 percent of territorial
expenditure; (iv) the introduction of performance agreements between MOH and these prox i der
management units that set forth feasible and measurable performance benchmarks regarding
coverage extension, efficiency, technical quality, and patient satisfaction; (v) the linking of Ihe
provision of equipment to progress in developing and implementing the management and delivery
model; (vi) rewarding health teams for high performance through the introduction of a team--based
incentive scheme; (vii) the development of community participation mechanisms that specify the
role, responsibilities, accountability, and rules of interaction between community and provider; and
(viii) continuous monitoring of performance-based targets set forth in the performance agree ments.
The project will support the implementation of this pilot through financing technical assistance,
training, materials, and study tours.
The third strategy aims to strengthen the MOH's capacity to monitor and evaluate health prcograms
and health service provision. This will involve an incremental, scale-up approach. Through iraining
and communication activities, demand will be created within MOH and among universities and
NGOs for developing monitoring and evaluation capacity. Similar to the development of planning,
purchasing, and contract management functions described above, implementation will involve a
"partnering" modality involving the contracting of and establishing collaborative links with local
and international institutions to perforrm monitoring and evaluation functions during the early
stages of implementation while strengthening MOH's monitoring and evaluation capacity. At first,
the emphasis will be placed on implementing the project's evaluation and monitoring plan (see
Annex 2e), including monitoring and evaluating the performance of contracted (private) and
commissioned (public) providers supported through Subcomponents lI.a and lI.b. This will involve
defining tracer indicators as well as planning for and implementing a baseline household survey in
targeted catchment areas in the Northern, Central, and Para-Central Regions. In a subsequen: stage,
capacity will be developed and applied to other MOH activities such as public health programs and
policy reform. Financing will support technical assistance, training, study tours, and development
of information systems.
The fourth and final strategy involves piloting an incentive scheme for MOH primary care teams in
the Northern, Central, and Para-Central Regions. To support quality improvement and performance
monitoring, the project will develop and test and an incentive scheme for teams of MOH primary
care workers providing basic health and nutrition services in the Central and Para-Central Regions
under Component It. Primary care teams consisting of physicians, nurses, and community health
workers will be the beneficiaries of the scheme, The awarding of incentives will be closely tied to
achieving performance objectives as specified in performance agreements signed between the team,
SIBASI management units and the MOH. The incentives will consist of training, technical
51



assistance, basic medical equipment, and instruments. The scheme will not award monetary
incentives. The processes and criteria for selecting and awarding the incentives will be specified in
the operation manual.
Component III: MOH Institutional Development for Policy Formation, National Priority
Programs, and Support Systems (US$17.0 million)
This component seeks to strengthen the capacity of MOH to perform stewardship functions related
to quality enhancement, health promotion, public health programs, disease surveillance, regulation,
and performance-based monitoring and evaluation. This will be achieved by supporting
investments linked to the adoption and implementation of an institutional strengthening and
decentralization strategy. This component creates a financial instrument that provides an incentive
for modernizing the institutional capacity by linking compliance with two sets of institutional
modernization performance benchmarks to the financing of corresponding sets of investments.
Complying with a set of benchmarks, will enable the borrower to access resources for financing
seven investment areas: (1) environmental health; (2) hospital medical waste management and
disposal; (3) control of vector-borne diseases; (4) the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and
STDS; (5) management systems; (6) information technology; and (7) communication strategies.
The investments share a common framework with the objectives of the proposed project.
Subcomponent III.a: Institutional Modernization(US$ 1.1 million)
This subcomponent will finance technical assistance, training, studies, and study tours to support
capacity building for the development and implementation of modernization policies, instruments,
and strategies related to decentralization, health planning, community participation, the regulatory
framework, resource allocation, and financial management. Progress in these areas will be gauged
through compliance with a subset of benchmarks specified in the Institutional Modernization
Matrix (IMBM) (see Annex 2b). The IMBM details modemization objectives and corresponding
implementation performance benchmarks agreed with the government in support of MOH's
institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy. Six functional areas are specified in the
matrix: coverage extension, financing and resource allocation, regulation, public health programs,
institutional strengthening, and community supervision. As part of normal project supervision, the
Bank will review progress on complying with IMBM benchmarks.
This institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy sets the long-term mission, vision, and
objectives of a modernized MOH capable of carrying out core stewardship functions related to
sector policy formation, regulation, public health, targeting subsidies to the poor, and monitoring
and evaluation. From a more short-term, operational standpoint, the strategy contains the following
elements: (i) the adoption of a decentralization strategy that includes the replacing of current
departmental management units with health district units, known as SIBASIs, with clearly defined
functions and without raising MOH administrative costs; (ii) the development and implementation
of instruments such as performance agreements and contracts to make health providers accountable
to both the MOH and the clients they serve; (iii) the establishment of a unit within the MOH
capable of monitoring and evaluating health services and programs systematically; (iv) the creation
of purchasing unit within the MOH with the capacity to draft, negotiate, and manage performance
agreements (with MOH providers) and service contracts (with non-governmental providers); (v)
the establishment of effective surveillance systems for vector-borne diseases, HIV/AIDS, and
STDS; and (vi) the introduction of community participation to support the delivery of basic health
and nutrition services. The benchmarks of the IMBM provide an implementation road map to
guide the institutional modernization process and keep it on course.
52



The government has agreed to adopt and implement the institutional strengthening and
decentralization strategy. A draft strategy was discussed and reviewed during appraisal, and a final
version is expected prior to effectiveness. As detailed below and in accordance with specific
IMBM benchmarks, the adoption of the institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy is
a condition for the disbursement of Phase I investments supported through this component, and the
implementation of the strategy is a condition of the disbursement of Phase 11 investments (see
below).
The design contemplates two IMBM reviews, each corresponding to compliance with a subset of
benchmarks therein. Compliance reviews and the corresponding release of resources will occur in
two phases, and the disbursements for each will be conditional upon compliance with the aztivities
detailed below. The Phase I review will occur in the first year of implementation, and the Plhase II
review will occur in the second year. However, upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to the
Bank of compliance with the benchmarks specified for each review, the disbursement conditions
will be lifted. As described below, the disbursement conditions for each review will be placed in
the Loan Agreement.
MOH and the Bank have agreed to include the following sets of investments as part of phase I:
Hospital and Medical Waste Management and Disposal (no. 2); Detection and Control of v ector-
borne Diseases (no. 2); Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS and STDs (no. 3); and
Communication Strategies (no. 6). These were selected during negotiations on the basis of their
current priority within the MOH's near-term horizon. As a condition for the disbursement of Phase
I investments, MOH will formally adopt an institutional strengthening and decentralization strategy
that: (i) contains the long-term mission, vision, and objectives of a modernized MOH; (ii) defines
the roles and competencies of health districts (SIBASIs) and eliminates Departmental Offices; (iii)
reassigns MOH staff to the to-be-established SIBASIs without increasing MOH's administrative
budget; (iv) applies performance agreements between MOH and SIBASIs; (v) uses performance-
based targets for MOH providers within SIBASIs; and (vi) prepares territorial health plans
As a condition of disbursement for Phase II investments, three additional sets of investmenls, i.e.
Environmental Health Capacity Building (no. 1), Human Resource Management Systems (no. 5),
and Information Technology (no. 7), MOH will have to have implemented the institutional
strengthening strategy, presenting evidence of: (i) service contracts signed with at least five non-
governmental providers, covering approximately 75,000 people; (ii) completion of baseline surveys
for monitoring and evaluating the extension of basic health and nutrition services supported by
Component II; and (iii) at least 3 SIBASIs functioning in earthquake-affected areas supported by
Component II, including the signing of performance agreements with MOH, the preparation and
implementation of at least one territorial health plan, and agreement reached on terms and
indicators for the evaluation of SIBASIs.
The program review will be carried out by the Bank with the assistance of independent eval'uators.
MOH's oversight of compliance with the IMBM and disbursement conditions will the
responsibility of the MOH Executive Committee. Headed by the Vice Minister, the Executive
Committee comprises four Department and six Program directors. It is the principal decision
making body in the MOH.
53



Subcomponent III.b: Investments to Strengthen MOH National Priority Programs (US$8.7
million)
Investments in MOH priority programs will support activities to assist MOH in implementing
strategies related to environmental health including: institutional strengthening, toxic medical
waste control, vector-borne diseases, and HIV/AIDS. Each investment was defined and agreed
during project preparation. Detailed annual action plans have been prepared for each category of
activities and are part of project files. The content of each is described below.
1.    Environmental Health: The activity will support MOH's strategies aimed at strengthening
the institutional capacity of MOH's key department for managing environmental health, viz., the
"Gerencia de Atencion Integral de Salud Ambientar' or GAISA, including (i) strengthen the policy,
regulatory, and consulting role of the central level of GAISA and (ii) develop and nurture the
capacity of local authorities to provide services efficiently using the a decentralized organizational
structure. The restructuring of GAISA will change the functions of the staff of the department. The
technical skills of the staff at the central and local levels and the qualifications of the sanitary
inspectors will require adjustments and upgrading. The project will also strengthen the network of
MOH laboratories and extend its coverage by increasing its capacity to obtain epidemiological
information from testing and monitoring and to analyze samples of food, water, toxic substances,
and vectors quickly, reliably, and with a high degree of specificity. It will finance technical
assistance on supervisory functions, laboratory regulations and norms, training of laboratory
technicians and sanitary inspectors, and procuring laboratory equipment as well as the basic office
equipment needed at the central and local levels to implement health education and sanitary
inspection activities.
2.     Mana.gement and Disposal of Hospital Medical Waste: The project preparation team
reviewed and analyzed the country's existing legal and regulatory framework for managing
medical waste. There are legal instruments and an official policy to regulate the hazardous waste
generated in health facilities. However, regulations and norms to implement the various steps in
the process of managing medical waste need to be developed and revised. The MOH is assigned
responsibility for applying the policy and law governing hospital waste, but enforcement is
irregular. The preparation team also assessed current practices through a survey of hospitals and
health centers using a systematic sample of 19 facilities (nine hospitals, nine health centers, and the
central laboratory) and a semi-closed questionnaire. The results show that medical waste
management and disposal outside of the metropolitan area is limited. Hospitals in departmental
capitals have some mechanisms for separating, collecting, and packaging medical waste, but
transport, treatment, and final disposition are unsatisfactory. Estimates of the quantity of toxic
medical waste generated in the country are 8.5 tons per day (using an average of 0.65 kg per bed
per day), of which 45 percent corresponds to the metropolitan area, which is estimated to treat 80
percent of its waste correctly. This means that only about 36 percent of the toxic medical waste
generated in El Salvador is managed adequately.
Through financing technical assistance, the proposed project will support: (i) developing and
applying technical norms and standards on handling and collecting medical waste inside health
facilities and on transporting, treating, and disposing of the collected waste and (ii) developing a
manual to describe the proper handling and disposal of medical waste in the seven hospitals in
Component I and in the health centers in Component II. It will support providing training in the
management of medical waste within the hospitals to medical staff and paramedical staff, not just
to the personnel who work in the waste collection, removal, and storage process. Training in the
operation and maintenance of the medical waste incinerators will be provided to at least three
54



people per hospital. The project will also finance the basic equipment required for waste
management inside the hospital. including receptacles, containers, and autoclaves.
3.     Detection and Control of Vector-borne Diseases with Emphasis on Dengue: Dengae was
first recognized in El Salvador in 1980, and epidemics have occurred in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The
most severe epidemic of dengue and of its severe form, dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF), occurred
in 2000. About 17,000 cases were reported, of which 3,248 were laboratory confirmed. Of these,
411 were DHF cases and 26 fatalities were reported. The existing weak dengue surveillance
system leads to believe that many additional thousands of cases of dengue occurred but were never
detected. The principal vector of the dengue virus is the mosquito Aedes Aegypti. Since there is no
vaccine or other prophylactic measure for preventinig dengue, it is necessary to control the
mosquito vector or use personal protective measures.
By financing of technical assistance, training, laboratory equipment, and vehicles, the project will
support the implementation of a three-step detection and prevention program: (i) laboratory-based
surveillance for early diagnosis and treatment of dengue and DHF cases; (ii) the active
participation of community members in the elimination and control of the larval habitats; and (iii)
educating a group of health workers who in turn will train other health workers in early recognition
of dengue activity. The national entomology program based in the Central Laboratory will be
responsible for the epidemiological surveillance program.
4.     Prevention and Control of HlV/AiDS anid STDS: The country has initiated the
implementation of a national strategy to prevent and detect HIV/AIDS and STDS that was
developed in consultation with civil societ\. A treatment program including the provision cf anti-
retroviral drugs has been initiated. The limited resources made available for implementing rhe
program have constrained its impact. This activity aims to improve the problem-solving capacit) of
the health services system and will support activities aimed at strengthening the country's capacity
to detect, prevent, and control the transmission of HIV/AIDS and STDS. By financing technical
assistance, training, minor rehabilitation of health facilities, the purchase of equipment, reagents,
and pharmaceuticals, and of information, education, and communication inputs (except for national
campaigns supported through investment no. 6 below), the project will support, (i) the training of
health workers; (ii) the establishment of counseling and confidential testing centers; (iii) the
creation of a confidential registry of HIV infections and AIDS cases; and (iv) the installation of a
national epidemiological surveillance system. A National Human Rights Network will be
established to promote non-discrimination in workplaces and schools and in terms of access to
care, including confidentiality of the medical information of people with HIV/AIDS. Targeted
information and education campaigns will be directed to high-risk groups (such as people with
STDs, commercial sex workers, and homosexuals). These campaigns will enlist the support: of
NGOs to produce educational materials in cooperation with members of the target population and
to distribute these educational materials. National media campaigns will be supported through
investment no. 6, Communication Strategies (see below).
Health workers will be trained in how to change high-risk behaviors, prevent mother-to-child
transmission through application of anti-retroviral therapy, case management and the needs of
people living with HIV/AIDS, and preventive interventions targeting young people in high-risk
environments such as prisons and street gangs. The project will also support the establishment of
five counseling and confidential testing centers in NIOH facilities located in urban and rural
settings as well as one STD detection and Ireatment center in San Salvador.
A national epidemiological surveillance system for HIV/AIDS and STDS will: (i) improve [UV
case detection by expanding sentinel sites (using prenatal clinics) and using a STD notification
55



system as a routine surveillance activity; (ii) establish a confidential registry of HIV infections and
AIDS cases; (iii) monitor the behavior of high-risk populations; and (iv) produce annual prevalence
studies. It will also support the production of a periodical HIV/AIDS epidemiology bulletin that
will include in-depth epidemiological analysis and behavioral data and a training program for
health workers to ensure a safe environment in health facilities.
Subcomponent III.c: Investments to strengthen MOH support systems (US$7.2 million)
One of the three development objectives of the proposed project is to extend the coverage of
essential health and nutrition services by contracting with non-government organizations (NGOs)
and by enhancing the quality, accessibility, and effectiveness of the services provided by MOH. It
is critical to strengthen the MOH's support systems in order to achieve that objective. The project
will help to strengthen the management systems of MOH that deal with people, information, and
communication. Each investment was defined and agreed during project preparation. Detailed
annual action plans have been prepared for each category of activities and are part of project files.
The content of each is described below.
5.    Human Resource Management Systems. The country has put into motion a new model of
organizing and providing health care services that emphasizes decentralized management,
community participation, purchasing, and accountability. These important structural and functional
changes require a review of the role of the health professionals to ensure that their role adapts to
changes in working conditions. By financing technical assistance, training, teaching materials, and
furniture, the project will assist MOH in developing and/or adjusting the following personnel
functions:
-  Defining a human resources strategy that takes into account the objectives of a
decentralized community-based service delivery model;
-  Adjusting the legal framework for managing staff under a new service provision model;
*  Designing and implementing a human resources management by redefining jobs and by
developing instruments, norms, and procedures to be applied at the central, hospital, and
decentralized levels;
* Updating and transferring personnel files to an electronic database;
* Developing and improving the management capabilities of managerial and supervisory
staff and of management teams; and
* Implementing a continuing education program for managers at all levels in how to manage
technical and non-technical staff and how to increase productivity.
6.    Communication Strategies: A communication program was carried out during project
preparation for the purposes of informing key stakeholders about the objectives, scope, and benefits
of the proposed project. Specific targets of this communication were representatives in Congress to
build understanding and consensus for the project's objectives. The design and implementation of a
communication strategy for the proposed project has five activities:
* Preparing a strategy using inputs from health promoters and project communities;
* Designing an information campaign to inform potential project beneficiaries about the
benefits and logistics of the project;
* Strengthening the social organization of project communities to promote knowledge,
understanding, and ownership of the project;
* Designing and running national multimedia campaigns on the prevention and control of
56



HIV/AIDS and STDS, dengue, and other diseases; and
Ongoing monitoring and periodic evaluation of the efficacy of the communications
strategy and taking corrective measures to adjust strategies, plans. and actionIs.
Regarding the transmission of HIV/AIDS and STDs, communication stratetzie . and corresponding
media campaigns will be aimed at the general population to raise awareness and understanic ng cf
lIII/AIDS and STDs transmission. The messages of the first year of the campaigln xiiII be ikewed
towards pregnant women in order to stress the importance of early diagnosis to prevrent mol, ier-to-
child transmission. The first year will also include information and education c.arnpaigns tar ietec to
high-risk groups (such as people with STDs, commercial sex workers, and horiosexuals) tc
increase their awareness of risk and how to prevent HIV infection.. T'hese campalgns will c ilist
the support of NGOs to produce and distribute educational materials in cooperation sx ith members
of the target population.
The project will procure (by competitive bidding) the services of a specialized comrmunicatiOn firm
and a public relations firm, it will finance printed health education materials and radio and
television spots. and will pay for meetings, workshops, transport, and other related expense>.
'.    sInformation Thnolog: An international consulting firm carried oul a diagniostic :Lnal)sis
and a needs analysis for the design and implementation of an integrated information sx stem for the
health sector. Using the information contained in that study and adapting it to the necds of I -ae
present project and to the financial constraints, the project preparation team iha', developed a
coherent strategy that defines: (i) the communication technology requirements in terns of
compatible hardware and software needs; (ii) a phased implementation program- xxilth anticipnated
results- (iii) a design of a management information system; and (iv) the human resources required
to operate the communication and information systems, including a definition, of their major
responsibilities.
A communication system with its hardware and software, its cabling, emergenc uenerators. hubs,
and routers is a means to build a management information system that helps managers to m;ake
timely decisions to achieve the country's health sector objectives of extendillg cov erage to the poor
and underserved population, improving health conditions by reducing preventable m)ortality and
morbiditv, containing costs, increasing the allocation efficiency of limited fitanicial resources, and
enhancing the quality of services provided. The management information systei l'or the six
hospitals being replaced or rebuilt under Component I proposes a computerizecd patient scheduling
system, billing and collection systems, and cost accounting systems.
T'he project will finance investments in new and upgradeable hardware. softxxare. and trainimrg.
fEstimates of the number of workstations, printers, LAN and Wan equipment. and staff to be trained
have been made during project preparation, and the associated costs are includeti in the finaiacing
p lan.
Component IV: Project Management (US$4.8 million)
I his component will finance part of the project management costs incurred bx the P(Ii. the 'ee for
the procurement agent for Components 11, III, and IV should one be contracted. ancd ftr the L esign
and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system. The costs of monitoring C(omponent
I are included in Component 1. The impact evaluation will be conducted for the project as a xvhole
and thus will be financed out of Component IV. It will also finance annual audit reports for 1he fuill
project on a declining basis.
57



Annex 2a: Detailed Description of the Emergency Reconstruction Component
(A Gantt chart is available upon request)
This annex consists of two sections. The first summarizes the overall damage caused by the two
earthquakes, their impact on the Salvadoran economy, and the response of the government and
donor community. The second section addresses the damage to the health sector, the response of
the donor community and of the Bank to the earthquake's damage on the health sector, states the
case for the Bank's involvement, and describes the proposed program for reconstructing seven of
the most damaged public hospitals. The program description details what will be done, at what
cost, how it will be financed, and what are the institutional arrangements for implementing the
program, for procuring goods and works, and for monitoring and evaluation progress and
outcomes.
A.    Earthquake damage background
1. Overall damage caused by the two earthquakes
Located between three different continental seismic plates, Central America has been subject to
frequent seismic and volcanic activity throughout its history. On January 13 and February 13, 2001,
El Salvador was rocked by two powerful earthquakes followed by thousands of strong aftershocks.
The first quake, measuring 7.6 on the Richter scale, occurred off the southern Pacific coast of El
Salvador and was felt from Mexico to Panama. It was the strongest earthquake in El Salvador
since the 1915 quake, with a magnitude of 7.9. The second quake, although lower in magnitude
(6.6), was centered about 30 km southeast of San Salvador, causing further damage in an already
serious situation. A previous earthquake in 1986 had killed 1,200 people.
The first earthquake's damage was greatest in the Departments of San Vicente, La Paz, and
Usulutan. The earthquake destroyed an estimated 150,000 homes, damaged another 170,000, and
killed about 950 inhabitants. By the time the second large quake struck, the number of deaths
increased to 1,260, and the number of homes destroyed reached 194,000. The second earthquake
was more localized, causing heavy damage in the Departments of La Paz, San Vicente, San
Salvador, and Cuscatlan. Some of the buildings that were partially damaged in the first earthquake
were destroyed by the second. It is estimated that about one-fifth of the Salvadoran population was
directly affected by the quakes by loss of life, the destruction of their homes, or the loss of their
sources of income. Landslides and collapsed hillsides blocked the Pan American highway at two
points and caused major damage in the coffee-growing areas. Physical infrastructure losses were
significant, particularly affecting schools, hospitals and health clinics, cultural heritage sites, and
small and medium-sized enterprises. With the exception of the coffee-growing areas, the country's
agricultural production capacity was unharmed.
According to estimates prepared by the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the total amount of damage and loss, both direct and indirect, from
the January 13, 2001 earthquake is estimated at US$1,255.4 million. Two-thirds of the damage
incurred was direct. Direct costs or losses refer to the destruction of physical infrastructure (public
and private) and equipment. Indirect losses or costs refer to losses in wages, production, market
share, sales, tax revenue, and the actual cost of relief efforts and insurance compensation. Two-
thirds of the damage was borne by the private sector. The earthquake damage was concentrated
among the lower-income strata, but it did not affect the departments with highest poverty
indicators.
58



The February 13, 2001 earthquake produced additional damages of more than US$348.5 m Ilion,
increasing the damage caused by the first earthquake by 28 percent. About half of the damage was
direct and also had a greater impact on the private sector. Altogether, damage from both qt.akes
represented about 12 percent of the country's GDP in 2000.
Assessments of the damage indicate that the social sectors were the most severely affected
(representing 40 percent of losses), with large losses in housing and social infrastructure. Housing
was particularly affected in smaller urban centers and rural areas where low-income housing tends
to be made of adobe and bahareque (plaited straw and mud panels on a wooden frame), neilher of
which are earthquake resistant. The earthquake magnified pre-existing housing disparities by level
of income. It is estimated that approximately 1.6 million were left homeless. In rural and semi-
urban areas where many families use the home for productive activities, the impact was greater.
Particularly affected were female-headed households, which make up 28 percent of households.
The health care service suffered extensive damage. Altogether, 1 13 of the 361 MOH healthL
facilities were affected, including 23 of 30 national hospitals, 82 health centers, and numerous
other structures including departmental offices, labs, etc. Eight of the largest hospitals sustained
important damage, while the remaining 15 will require less substantive repairs. The more damaged
hospitals continue to operate under large tents, in trailers, and in other provisional structures while
others have considerably reduced operations in the sections that were less damaged. Damaged
health facilities account for 55 percent of health care deliveiy capacity. By the end of the second
quake, more than 2,000 hospital beds were out of service, reducing capacity by 25 percent in a time
of crisis. (See next section for details on the health sector)
The education sector also suffered significant losses. A total of 1,366 public facilities suffered
damages, representing 28 percent of all facilities, of which 287 were either destroyed or suffered
severe damage. Losses in the private sector were lower, with 55 (of 1,058) schools destroyed or
suffering severe damage. Most of the damage occurred in San Salvador, UsulutAn, and La Paz.
ECLAC estimates that nearly 430,000 students were affected by the damage to infrastructure, by
not having access to a facility and by frequent suspension of classes and shorter sessions. Cultural
heritage was also affected, including historical buildings, museums, archeological sites, valLuables,
archives, and private heritage facilities such as churches, libraries, and collections.
Infrastructure including transport and communications, water and sanitation, and energy
sustained about 32 percent of the overall damage. Landslides affected more than 500 roads and
highways, including the Pan-American highway, the main road across the country and the region,
affecting regional trade and transportation and cutting off access to affected communities. Damage
to roads increased the costs of trade and commerce. The telecommunications sector was
interrupted due to a lack of electricity and a huge increase in demand. These problems, however,
were resolved relatively quickly. Water and sanitation was most affected in the rural areas
About 8 percent of the 400 rural water and sanitation systems were damaged, mainly from the
rupture of pipelines and destruction of well walls. The main damage to potable water systems in
urban areas was storage and distribution tanks and supply lines. About 500,000, or 15 percent of
urban residents connected to a supply of potable water were left without water. Electricity in the
most severely affected areas was cut after both quakes (as aprecautionary measure). Power was
restored relatively quickly. Only minor damage was sustained by generating plants, and did not
affect production capacity.
Productive Sectors suffered more limited losses, accounting for 20 percent of all damage. Small
industries located in small towns and rural areas were the most severely affected. Only about 6
59



percent of facilities of medium and large-scale industries and the maquila industry were affected
during the first earthquake, compared with more than 10,000 micro, small, and medium enterprises.
Another 2,500 micro enterprises were damaged or destroyed during the second earthquake. A
significant number of women employed in the informal sector in micro or small enterprises lost
their jobs, in part because they head 71 percent of these enterprises. Damage to agriculture was
more limited and affected primarily the coffee-growing region. Those suffering production and
stock losses were mainly the smaller-sized enterprises, while larger enterprises were unaffected.
All but 15 percent of the coffee had been harvested when the earthquake struck, but what remained
unharvested was the higher quality, shade-grown coffee grown for export. Less than 3 percent of
this high-grade coffee was recovered.
Environment and Vulnerability. As a result of the earthquakes, topsoil erosion from landslides
and mudflows was significant and numerous slopes are now unstable. The main environmental
effects of the January earthquake were loss of vegetation and forest cover, loss and degradation of
soil, damage to basins and ravines from disposal of debris, salinization of soils and water tables,
decrease in fishing catches along coastal areas, increase in vulnerability in event of new
earthquakes and in the rainy season, and sedimentation in bodies of water during the rainy season.
After the February earthquake, there was some environmental damage in the central areas of the
country, which aggravated problems from the first event.
Summary of the Damages Caused by the January 13th and February 13th Earthquakes in El
Salvador
(in million USD)
Sectors                                         Damage
Total         Direct       Indirect
Total                               1,603.8        938.8         665.0
Social Services                     616.7          496.4         120.3
Education                          210.5          190.4         20.1
Health                             72.4           55.9          16.5
Housing and settlements            333.8          250.1         83.7
Infrastructure                      472.3           96.7          375.
Electricity                         16.4           3.2          13.2
Water and sanitation               23.1           18.7          4.4
Transportation                     432.8          74.8         358.0
Production                          339.3          243.7          95.6
Agriculture and fishing            93.1           38.5          54.6
Industry, trade, tourism            246.2          205.2          41.0
Environmental Damages                102.5          102.0         0.5
Other damages and expenses           73.0                         73.0
Source: ECLAC estimates, The January 13, 2001 Earthquake in El Salvador. Socioeconomic and
Environmental Impact, ECLAC and El Salvador: Evaluaci6n del Terremoto del Martes, 13 de Febrero de
2001.
2. Impact of the earthquakes on the economy
El Salvador's economy suffered a slowdown for the third consecutive year in 2000 with only a 2
percent GDP growth rate. There was a slowdown in the construction, agriculture (internal
consumption), and trade sectors. In 2001, El Salvador introduced the U.S. dollar as legal tender,
60



and expected inflation to decline from 4.3 percent in 2000 to 77 percent beyond 2002, as
Salvadoran and U.S. inflation rates converged as a rcsult oS mn.aclra inmcgrati on. Strong ;zrowth in
maquila exports were expected as a result of the increased acess to u1.S markets through the
Caribbean Basin Initiative, the current account deficit was exr,cted to s iden to about 3.5 percent
due to reduced coffee exports and increased oil prices. and 1he central banik was planning t.
increase further the cushion of reserves in excess of base nonev. F iscal measusres were to lie
introduced to reduce the public deficit from 2.8 percent to 1t.( p3ercen[ of G1DP by 2003, and the
regulation of the financial sector was to be strren(thelled.
In fact, El Salvador began 2001 with low inflation. relativeil lc'wx public debt and net international
reserves slightly in excess of base money, and thlere wNere reasonable prospects for a recovery in
growth. However, the earthquakes clearly changed the imiprov ed economl1ic outlook. Excljding the
cost of reconstruction, the effect of the earthquakes xvas to reduce real economic growth to below
3.0 percent. Nevertheless, inflation is still projected to fall to its expectedt 3.0 percent. There is a
risk, however, that a deterioration in social conditionis could wcak-en contfidence and impair
prospects for economic growth. The key to this is the definition anid establishment of an effective
reconstruction plan. The total cost of reconstruction. as estimated bv E(tAC. is more than US$1.9
billion, placing even greater pressure on already stretched nublic finatnce and domestic capacity for
investment and saving. Together, the damage from both earthquakes represents about 12 percent of
the country's GDP in 2000. El Salvador will have to finance tie public sector deficit throut,h loans
from multilateral institutions and an international bonid issise
3. Government and donor response
The Government's emergency and reconstructioni strategy an I response
iMeasures taken by GOES during the Relief Phas: Fergencsc  re.sponse lo the earthquakes, was
relatively rapid and coordinated. due in part to the recent experience tfrOMn i iurricane Mitch. El
Salvador's National Emergency Committee (C OE'N : orAdinated tnhe overall r esponse, compiling
and conducting needs assessments, setting pri -ritics. oind cooewinaiin't v3 iih the Salvadoran .rrmed
Forces and other national and international rescue or'anizatilon.., *   e pr;s ate sector establishbed the
National Solidarity Commission (CONASOL) to rnana,Le tie  distribution of foreign and domnestic
assistance (cash and in kind), ensuring transparency in the handimlg of assistance. Civil society also
participated actively in the emergency work. The SlA ( Supply N1anagement) data processing
system was employed to track the inflows of assistance. (,iven that PAIIO had already trained 40
staff to operate the system in response to the disasters suffered in the pievious two years (Hurricane
Mitch in 1998, droughts caused by El WNio in 1997 and 1998, and floods in the Lempa and Paz
rivers in 1999), the distribution system was set nti ox i,ht lvy inid- arch. a total of 14,000 tons
of in-kind donations had been received and distributed.
GOES response during the Reconstruction Phase. Soon after the first earthquake, all levels of
government were mobilized to deal with the disaster. I the Minister of the Econiomy was appointed
to coordinate the reconstruction efforts. A Plan tf6r Recover (oJ the Dalimge C'a used by the
Earthquakes was prepared by GOES and presented on March 7. 2001. at the IDB-convened
Consultative Group Meeting for the Reconstruction of [. Salvador- in Mladrid, Spain. The
government's plan stresses transparency of assistanci  managenient. economnic and political
decentralization to ensure local needs are met. civil societt 'art"Cpationr in decision-making and
oversight to increase accountability, risk managenment and  .uteglhenling eapacity to deal with
emergencies, and income generation for those affected  lenii _Wresees three phases., including:
an Emergency Phase covering the period up to October 0If)(il hler the rainy season ends and there
will be no more risk of landslides nor floods- a Relhabilita6iun Phase extending from January to
61i



May 2001 in which the effects of the earthquakes will be mitigated through the normalization of
activities; and a Reconstruction Phase, which in the short run will focus on priority projects that
also allow for the recuperation of the national and local economy.
Thus, the plan called for municipal governments to be responsible for distributing needed items to
the affected population. The Social Investment Fund for Local Development (FISDL) managed the
demand for temporary shelter modules. Government assistance focused on the shelters with
support from international organizations and NGOs. The Salvadoran community outside El
Salvador was generous and provided about US$500,000. In addition to providing emergency
treatment to victims with its limited capacity, MOH distributed potable water, buried the dead and
introduced preventive measures to prevent the spread of disease. The participation of CONASOL
and the use of the SUMA svstem ensured transparency of operation.
In total, GOES has allocated US$241 .2 million of its own funds to deal with the emergency and
reconstruction. US$172.6 of this amount represents supplemental budget and US$50 million are
emergency bonds. In addition, GOES requested multilateral Banks to reallocated funds from
existing loans and has requested new lending to cover their reconstruction needs. A total of
US$642.3 million was available for reconstruction as of June 2001. This excludes new lending
from the World Bank.
Donor response. Immediately following the earthquakes, multilateral and bilateral donors
mobilized to provide emergency relief supplies, search and rescue assistance, temporary shelter
materials, water and sanitation assistance, medical care and supplies, and technical assistance.
International assistance (more than US$4.5 million) arrived quickly with most of it channeled
through bilateral organizations, NGOs, or directly to the affected communities. Temporary
housing was provided for 33,000 people. The World Food Program (WFP) purchased supplies for
provision of emergency food assistance and PAHO provided assistance for basic sanitation needs.
USAID provided US$18.2 million for reconstruction, including US$2.8 for health, US$2.3 for
education, US$1.3 for FISDL for reconstruction, and US$11.8 for housing.
Multilateral Banks redirected funds from ongoing operations and provided new lending. The Inter
American Development Bank (IADB) reallocated a total of US$79.1 million and provided
additional lending of US$180.9 million, for a total of US$260 million. Forty-one percent of
financing was for FISDL and the Ministry of Public Works, and another 20 percent for education.
The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) provided US$87.7 million in new
lending, of which US$35.0 was to cover housing needs, and another US$1 1.1 million for the
reconstruction and repair of health facilities.
The Bank's response: The World Bank reallocated US$31.9 million in loan funds from the
ongoing Secondary Education (Ln. 4224-ES) and Education Reform Loans (Ln. 4320-ES) to assist
with the immediate reconstruction needs in the education sector. The Bank also reallocated
US$3.3 million from the ongoing Agriculture Sector Reform and Investment Project (Ln.3576-ES)
to assist in the reconstruction of small rural productive infrastructure and the reconstruction and
repair of the Ministry of Agricullure infrastructure.
The government requested financial support from the Bank in June 2001 to reconstruct seven
hospitals damaged in the earthquakes. Thle Bank has responded favorably and agreed to channel its
support through a reformulation of the Health Services Extension Project that was already under
preparation. The following adjustments were made: (a) incorporating the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of seven heavily damaged hospitals and (b) expanding the scope of the primary
health care extension component to include the central part of the country where the earthquake
62



had its major effects. The following section describes the proposed Bank program for
reconstructing the seven hospitals.
B.    The health sector reconstruction program
Government and donor response. The health sector sustained substantial damage: 113 of the 361
MOH health facilities were affected, including 23 of 30 national hospitals, 82 health centets, and
repairs on miscellaneous structures including departmental offices and labs. Eight large hospitals
sustained important damages and 15 require less substantive repairs. GOES has obtained fuinding
for reconstruction from numerous sources, including IDB (US$20.7 million), CABEI (USi.26.0
million), US$20.0 million from the Government of Japan, and approximately US$ 10.1 million
from other sources. In addition, it is contributing about US$26.8 million of its own funds,
including proceeds from the sale of Antel, treasury funds and Government bonds. The total
US$103.6 million will finance the reconstruction of the Rosales Hospital, regional hospitals, health
centers and other smaller health sector structures. The IDB operation will provide resources for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of the MOH primary care network (including 49 health centers)
and general earthquake relief in the Central and Para-Central Regions, and will seek to
"modernize" service in primary care facilities and in a limited number of MOH hospitals. With the
exception of the Rosales hospital, which is to be financed by the Japanese Government, GOES has
sought Bank financing for all of the major hospitals.
This figure does not include financing sought from the World Bank to finance the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of the largest seven hospitals, and extend health services in earthquake affected
Regions and the Northern Region for a total of US$165.7 million (with a loan amount of 1 S$142.6
million, including the front-end fee), bringing the total for the reconstruction program to
approximately US$270 million. The Bank will finance about 53 percent of the reconstruction
program.
Rationale for Bank involvement: El Salvador will benefit from the financial and technical
assistance of the World Bank to rehabilitate and replace seven severely damaged public hospitals,
some of which are quite old, functionally obsolete, and had already suffered substantial
deterioration from earlier lack of maintenance. First, the Bank's standards are high and require
detailed assessments (of environmental, financial, participatory aspects and of the applicayon of
building codes). Second, building and equipping hospitals is capital-intensive and the Bank will
act as a lender of last resort. Third, the Bank's technical assistance will ensure that the
rehabilitated and reconstructed facilities will have a high degree of functionality, will be built
according to international norms, will incorporate efficiencies in their designs that will recljce their
operating costs, and will assist in organizing programs of preventive maintenance.
1. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy: The new CAS takes into consideration the
economic disruption caused by the earthquakes in January and February 2001 and their de- astating
impact on health infrastructure and the redrawing of the poverty map. The CAS has an ovvrriding
reconstruction-cum-poverty reduction objective, aiming to reduce national poverty to 30-35 percent
by year 2005, despite heavy losses due to earthquakes. The proposed project is the center piece of
the Bank's emergency reconstruction assistance. First, the project will reconstruct seven large
hospitals in earthquake-affected areas, render them more functional and make them more efficient
and patient-friendly. Second, it will strengthen essential health and nutrition services in
earthquake-affected and extremely poor areas by expanding coverage of essential services for the
poor, supporting cost-effective health and nutrition interventions and improving their quality,
strengthening environmental health programs, and implementing institutional reforms to irnprove
the effectiveness and efficiency of poverty alleviation efforts.
63



2. Lessons Learned From Previous Operations: Key lessons from a previous earthquake
reconstruction project in El Salvador indicate that a strong implementation unit is key to project
success (Ln. 2873-ES). Effective implementation requires a strong coordinating entity with clear
authority. Moreover, project design should be kept simple. Experience with other emergency
operations elsewhere (OED Precis # 174, 1998) echoes the same lessons, and notes the need to
ensure that stakeholders (IEU/MOH and the CMF) review all designs prior to entering the bidding
process to reduce the quantity of future contract variations. To ensure timeliness, implementing
agencies should take into account the scope and complexity of work, and the capacity of the local
contractors in estimating construction periods for project execution. Damage and needs
assessments should be undertaken prior to effectiveness.
3. Proposed Project Component: Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Network in
Earthquake-affected Areas (US$127.0 million).
Objectives of the Component:
a) Rehabilitate/Reconstruct seven hospitals, in line with current seismic codes;
b) Make the seven hospitals more functional and integrate them into a health network; and
c) Develop and implement a preventive maintenance program for buildings and equipment
Project Design Alternatives Considered: Initially the hospital reconstruction component was
conceived as a free-standing emergency project to ensure faster processing and approval.
However, it became clear that it will not be wise to de-link it from other health sector interventions
under preparation as the decisions regarding the nature and location of services to be provided
depends on the state of both primary and higher levels of care. The current project will be
analyzing the functionality of the health care network with the objective of identifying where
services should be strengthened and what they should consist of. Excluding the primary care
network from the analysis and interventions could result in rebuilt hospital infrastructure without
an adequate attention to improving the system of health costs of which they represent a substantial
part.
Component Description:
Subcomponent I.a: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Seven Earthquake-Damaged
Hospitals ($122.7 million)
Public Hospitals in El Salvador
Prior to the earthquakes, the public sector in El Salvador had 30 MOH managed hospitals with a
total of 4,843 beds. This network of publicly financed hospitals mainly serves the poor as better-
off Salvadorans tend to seek care in the private sector and most salaried workers have access to the
health care facilities of the Social Security Institute. These 30 hospitals are supposed to provide
secondary and tertiary level care although most also provide primary and first contact level care
and the equipment and supplies for tertiary care level are quite minimal. They range in size
between 100 and 500 beds. Together they employ 11,424 people or 2.4 staff per bed. On average,
about 93 percent of operating costs were financed with public funds, and 7 percent through cost
recovery initiatives. About 74 percent of the operating budget was spent on personnel in 2000
versus 63 percent in 1997. The proportion spent on drugs also increased from 12 to close to 16
percent, leaving only 10 percent for other expenditures such as maintenance, transport, medical
supplies, and equipment.
64



Public Hospitals included in the Project
,he two earthquakes caused damage to 23 of the 30 public hospitals that ranges from minor non-
structural damage to fifteen of them to medium and high damage in the others requiring
rehabilitation or replacement. This project will rehabilitate three and partially or fully replace four
of the most heavily damaged hospitals (Table 1):
a) Three of the seven hospitals (San Juan de Dios in San Miguel, Santa Teresa in Zacatecoluca
and San Pedro in Usulutan) will be rehabilitated and part of the equipment replaced.
h) The tower of San Rafael Hospital will be rehabilitated and the rest of the hospital rep]aced.
-) Two hospitals (Santa Gertrudis in San Vicente and Cojutepeque in Cuscatlan) while sustaining
somewhat less damage, will be replaced because their functional obsolescence poses a greater
danger to patients than the damage caused by the earthquakes. Cojutepeque will also be re-
sited.
cL) The National Maternity sustained considerable damage and will be rebuilt but not nec.ssarily
on the same site.
,ehabilitation will reinforce existing structures to ensure that they meet current seismic
eonstruction standards. Hospitals will be reconstructed in phases so as to permit partial use of
facilities at all times, reducing exposure to precarious temporary facilities and eliminating the need
to locate or construct alternative less permanent structures. Much of medical and non-medical
e:quipment will require replacement. Equipment will include cabling needed to install
vomputerized management information systems, and equipment needed to dispose of medical
w,aste.
The project will finance the preparation of damage assessments, and rehabilitation and repilacement
designs in the amount of US$2.8 million, the replacement of approximately 65,650 squarc meters,
and the rehabilitation of approximately 57,700 square meters, for a total of approximately US$123
million. The project will also finance medical and non-medical equipment for a total of l S$34.1
-nillion. The project will also finance quarterly technical and financial audits (special audit reports)
]n the amount of $0.9 million. The details of the pre-earthquake capacity and current status of each
hospital are included below.
Statistical Profile of the Seven Hospitals
'Ihese hospitals have been constructed over a lotng time period, with the first of them having been
constructed as much as 175 years ago and the most recent addition only three years ago. All seven
hospitals show good inpatient utilization figures with short lengths of stay and high occupancy
levels (Table 3). Outpatient and emergency departments also indicate high utilization. Emergency
visits in two hospitals are higher than outpatient visits suggesting an inappropriate use of i he
emergency rooms. Most hospitals have 1.5 to 2 nurses per physician (Table 2) which is a much
mnore favorable ratio than the one often found in most LAC countries. Also all hospitals appear
adequately staffed with a range of 2.2 to 3.5 staff per occupied bed. Thus utilization and staffing of
the seven hospitals prior to the earthquakes are satisfactory.
65



Table 1: Public Sector Hospitals to be Rep laced/Rehabilitated
Hospital       Age (in  I  Degree of         Action            Pre-       Sq. Meters   Population
|ears)     Damage*       Recommended       earthquake       Built       Served
of Beds                   (2001)
San Juan de Dios in  25       Medium               Rehabilitate          540      37,126       331,683
San Miguel
San Rafael in La    25-113    lligh             Partial rehab &          230      15.902       702,340
Libertad                                               replace
Santa Teresa in     35        Med/High             Rehabilitate          175       10,300      296,145
Zacatecoluca
San Pedro in        28        Medium               Rehabilitate          130       10,300      195,242
Usulutan
Santa Gertrudis in    3-153   Med              Replace on same           130       16,530      164,670
San Vicente                                               site
Cojutepeque in      35-175    Med             Replace and resite          90        3,380      182,602
Cuscatlan
Maternidad         (20-48     Med/High        Replace and resite         398       15.900    National -
Nacional in San                                                                                    only
Salvador                                                _                                     OB/GYN
*Degree of Damage as reported by WHO/PAEIO:
Structural and Functional Assessment of the Seven Hospitals
The seven hospitals are deficient in three areas: earthquake damage, functional obsolescence, and
lack of maintenance. All hospitals suffered some degree of structural damage. How much damage
the earthquakes caused in each hospital is described in detail below. Functional shortcomings
derive from two sources: obsolescence of design and of flows of patients, staff and materials, and
earlier construction not applying international standards regulating the hospital environment in
terms of asepsis. ventilation, and patient and staff safety. Maintenance budgets have traditionally
been low and have decreased even more as personnel costs and the cost of pharmaceuticals have
taken a larger bite out of the budget. These two expenditure categories accounted for 90 percent of
a typical hospital budget in 2000. The combined impact of the earthquake damage, functional
obsolescence, and gradual physical deterioration for lack of maintenance is such that the degree of
reconstruction and rehabilitation required exceeds the net effects of the January and February 2001
earthquakes. Therefore, the outcome of the proposed emergency reconstruction program will not
be a replica of the facilities that existed before the earthquakes. Instead, it will produce a set of
hospitals that will possibly have fewer beds, larger and more patient-friendly outpatient areas, new
and more efficient technologies including the provision of ambulatory surgery and "day" hospital
care, and have a functional design that takes into account efficiencies in operating cost.
Table 2: Staffing of Project Hospitals, 1999
Hiospital            Physicians      Nurses        Other       Total         Staff per
occupied bed
San Juan de Dios in San Miguel         213           353         379        945           2.5
San Rafael in La Libertad               71           157         221        449           2.2
Santa Teresa in Zacatecoluca            73            93         219        372           3.0
San Pedro de tUsulutan                  48           127         162        337           2.8
Santa Gertrudis in San Vicente          48           143         203        394           3.5
Cojutepeque in Cuscatlan                30            48          106        184          2.7
MaternidadNacional in San               181          306         241        728           2.4
Salvador
Source: PAHO!W1 lO except last column from World Bank calculations
66



Table 3: Hospital Statistics 1999
Hospital         Discharges   Number of   Medical    Emergency       Percent       Average
Patient    Outpatient  Room Visits  Occupancy      Length of
Days       Visits             _                  Slay in days
San Juan de Dios in      26,854       142,225     146,998      76,095         97            5
San Miguel           l                                     l
San Rafael in La         18,289       74,004      71.995                                    4
Libertad                          I _
Santa Teresa in          11982        45,789      43,021       50.956   |    77             4
Zacatecoluca         L
San Pedro de Usulutan    11,658       44,140      51,344       66,764         87            4
Santa Gertrudis in San   10,275       38,003      44,980       35,081         80            4
Vicente              l
Cojutepeque in            7,028       24,727      40,396       17,853         75             4
Cuscatlan
Maternidad Nacional in    30,665  T,  109,111     81,882       37,022         98             3
San Salvador             30,66
Source: MOH - Planning Directorate - Health Information Management Unit
Hospital-Specific Descriptions and Evaluations
San Juan de Dios in San Miguel
The service area of this tertiary care referral hospital is about 1 .4 million people. Constructi6n of
this six-story building on a large lot (70,000 square meters) was finished in 1975, and it toolk 10
years to reach full operation. The hospital houses 540 beds, of which 120 are rented to the ICSS; 18
specialty and four general clinics with 22 consulting rooms; six major and three minor operating
theaters; five delivery rooms; and diagnostic support services consisting of imaging, blood bank,
clinical and anatomo-pathological laboratories, ultrasound, pharmacy and physiotherapy. Its
biomedical equipment is technologically of low complexity, insufficient and cannot meet the
service provision objectives of a tertiary-level care referral hospital. The degree of earthquake
damage is judged to be medium. Currently only the two lower floors are being used and the
number of beds in use has been sharply reduced. This hospital will be rehabilitated
San Rafael in La Libertad
This hospital was built over a period of 1 00 years and serves a population of about 700,000. The
16,000 square meters of constructed area on a 20,000 square meter lot consists of a five-story tower
built in 1976, and one two-story and three one-story older buildings of which the original one was
built in 1860. Service complexity is between a secondary and tertiary-level care facility with 240
beds, four general and 18 specialty clinics, four delivery rooms. five major and one minor
operating theaters supported by basic diagnostic services such as radiology, clinical laboratcry,
ultrasound, blood bank, pharmacy and physical therapy. Earthquake damage is estimated to be
high with the older buildings requiring replacement and the tower requiring substantial
rehabilitation. Presently hospitalization and surgical services are provided in temporary facilities
on an emergency basis, and mobile units may be needed to restore some of the services while
reconstruction takes place. Furthermore, the physical separation between the older buildings and
the tower with the consequent need of transporting patients on stretchers and in wheelchairs
between buildings makes the current layout quite dysfunctional. The project will rehabilitate the
five-story tower and replace the other buildings according to a functional program that will link the
old and new facilities more efficiently.
67



Santa Teresa in Zacatecoluca
The hospital was finished in 1971 and opened its doors in 1972 to serve the 300,000 people in the
Zacatecoluca Department. This is a secondary-level care hospital of 175 beds with two six-story
towers and a built area of about 10,000 square meters on a large lot of 34,200 square meters. The
bed capacity supports two delivery rooms and five major operating rooms and one minor operating
room. It has four general and 12 specialty clinics in 12 consulting rooms and diagnostic support
with radiology, endoscopy, clinical laboratory, blood bank, pharmacy, and physiotherapy.
Earthquake damage was substantial, and the two towers have been evacuated for safety reasons.
Outpatient care and some diagnostic services are provided currently on the ground level. The
hospital is located on the slopes of a volcano and its safety can be improved by simple drainage of
rainwater in already identified ravines. This hospital will be rehabilitated.
San Pedro de Usulutan
A smaller (130 beds and 10,000 square meters of built space) and more recently constructed (1972)
hospital, it serves the 300,000 people in the Usulutan Department. Its service complexity varies
between secondary and tertiary-level care with four general clinics and five specialty clinics
(Cardiology, Neonatal, ENT, Orthopedics and Plastic Surgery), and two delivery rooms and four
operating rooms. Its diagnostic support equipment is quite standard for a secondary-level care
hospital (radiology, EKG, ultrasound, clinical laboratory, blood bank, pharmacy and
physiotherapy). Earthquake damage is moderate but here, too, the towers have been evacuated for
safety reasons and only the ground floor is used for pediatric inpatients, offices, stores and minor
service units. Rehabilitation could, therefore, be done quickly without the complications of the
building being occupied.
Santa Gertrudis in San Vicente
This is also one of the smaller hospitals (130 beds) serving the population of the San Vicente
Department (165,000) that was built in a pavilion style design (six one-story buildings) over a
period of more than 100 years on a large lot of 67,000 square meters. Its service complexity is
similar to other departmental hospitals with four general and 10 specialty clinics, one delivery
room, five operating rooms and the usual secondary level diagnostic equipment. Its pavilion
design protected the hospital from major earthquake damage and most services are operating in
their original space with a few minor exceptions. However, the very design that protected the
hospital against major earthquake damage makes it a highly dysfunctional health care facility and
replacement is recommended for functional obsolescence and high operating cost reasons. The
hospital will be replaced on the same site.
Cojutepeque in Cuscatlan
The smallest of the seven hospitals (90 beds) serves a slightly larger population (240,000) than the
inhabitants of the Cuscatlan Department (182,000). Its 3,400 square meters of built area are one
one-story building and two two-story buildings. One of these constructions was erected in 1827.
Its clinical problem solving capability is one of secondary care level with a delivery room, two
operating rooms, 10 consulting rooms, and the usual low level diagnostic support. About half of the
services are functioning today. As in the case of the San Gertrudis hospital, its low-level design
protected the hospital from major earthquake damage but these same design features - as well as its
age and its location on a mountain slope - require replacing it for functional and operational cost
saving reasons on a different site.
68



Maternidad Nacional in San Salvador
The National Maternity Hospital is a specialized obstetric and gynecology referral hospital located
in the downtown area of the capital city of San Salvador. One three-story building was buill in
1954, one two-story building was erected in 1960, and a gynecology clinic was added in 1982. Its
bed capacity is listed as 404 beds, but this number includes 60 beds for newborns so its actLial bed
capacity is 344. Of the seven hospitals, it has the least square meters per bed (about 40 square
meters per bed) and the smallest site (7,000 square meters). Utilization is very high with a close to
100 percent occupancy level that leaves no margin for peaks, and it has a short three-day a. erage
length of stay. It has eight delivery rooms, 10 operating rooms. some advanced imaging eq uipment
(tomography), and other diagnostic support services such as blood bank, clinical and anatorno-
pathological laboratories, ultrasound, and pharmacy.
This national specialty hospital faces several issues. First, earthquake damaged was substantial and
several services have been shut down: the number of beds has been reduced to 225, severall
operating rooms are closed, and support services are housed in temporary buildings. Second, there
is general agreement that the design is not functional as the hospital was not conceived as one
facility but is an aggregation of buildings assembled over a 30-year time span. Third, services
provided at a national referral hospital should be at the highest level of clinical problem solving.
Yet the hospital receives and treats patients with all levels of complexity, thereby negating its
mission as a specialized facility. On the positive side, its downtown location offers good
accessibility to patients (but not to staff).
The Maternidad Nacional Hospital is the most complex case among the seven hospitals anr
proposed siting, functions, and relationships with other health facilities will require careful
consideration.
Subcomponent I.b: Corrective and Preventive Maintenance (US$3.1 million).
As part of the decentralization of health services, MOH has designed an integrated maintenance
program for all levels of care with support from GTZ. The integrated maintenance system (IMS)
incorporates all members of the healthcare community, from beneficiaries to providers, in the
maintenance program. The community is organized to care for the exteriors (such as the garden
and painting) of facilities and some of the interior cleaning. Volunteer hospital staff take care of the
less complex functions and all operators of equipment are responsible for the proper maintenance
and care for their equipment. The maintenance department in each hospital is in charge of [he
planning, management and supervision of the program. More complex maintenance activilies are
contracted out. The community and non-specialists will be involved in the lower levels of care. At
the hospital level, much of the maintenance will be subcontracted out. Implementation of the
program, however, has just begun. Implementation is to be done in five phases: (a) sensitization of
all staff that will be involved in maintenance activities; (b) preparing an inventory of buildings and
equipment; (c) training of all generalist staff working on maintenance; (d) training of equipment
operators; and (e) organizing the maintenance program, including the preparation of protocols and
manuals for the three levels of care. To date, only the second phase and part of the first have been
completed, and the supplies needed for repairing and maintaining equipment have not been
provided. The project will support the strengthening of MOH's integrated preventive maintenance
program by financing technical assistance for the preparation and testing of maintenance pr otocols
and manuals for the three levels of care and training of staff (approximately US$1.0 million). The
project will also support a comprehensive preventive maintenance program for the hospitals being
reconstructed under this component. Financing for building and equipment maintenance v'ill be
provided by counterpart funding for a total of US$2. 1 million. New biomedical equipment will be
69



under warranty and, upon expiration of the warranty period, will be under service contracts.
This component will also finance a small unit (IEU) within the MOH which will oversee
implementation of this component, the monitoring of the component activities and its supervision.
Quarterly technical and financial audits (special audit reports) of component I activities would also
be supported.
Component Costs and Financing:
The total costs of GOES's reconstruction program are estimated at approximately US$270 million.
The loan will finance 53 percent of the program or US$142.6 million.
HOSPITAL                            Civil Works     Equip      Consultants    Grand total
San Juan de Dios, San Miguel              5.5          11.0                            16.5
Santa Teresa, Zacatecoluca                2.7           3.0                             5.7
San Pedro, Usulutan                       2.2           2.6                             4.8
San Rafael, La Libertad                   1.7           3.5                            15.2
Cojutepeque, Cuscatlan                    6.1           2.0                             8.1
Matemidad, San Salvador                  21.2           8.7                            29.9
Santa Gertrudis, San Vicente              10.0          3.0                            13.0
SubTotal                                 59.4          33.8                            93.2
Designs (3.0%)                                                             2.8
Management (5%)                                                            4.7
Supervision (6%)                                                           5.6
rechnical/Financial Audits (1%)                                           0.9
Price Contingencies 6%                                                                  6.2
Physical Contingencies 10%                                                              9.3
Grand total                                                                           122.7
Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation
Institutional Arrangements
Executing Agencies: MOH will have the overall responsibility for implementing the proposed
component. This responsibility will fall on the PCU for this component, hereafter referred to as the
IEU (Infrastructure Executing Unit). MOH will select and contract a Construction Management
firm (CMF), using Bank Consultant Guidelines, to execute Component I. The cost of the IEU and
the will be financed by the project. Responsibilities of the IEU for Component I and the PCU for
Components II and III are described separately, given the different nature of their activities.
Infrastructure Executing Unit (IEU): The IEU will coordinate closely with the PCU for
Components II and III and will report directly to the Minister's office. It will be an independent
unit with separate reporting arrangements within the MOH. The IEU will consist of a high level,
full-time civil engineer or architect, with ample management and construction experience, and
experience with Bank procedures, who will head the IEU and will be assisted by a part-time legal
70



counsel (on retainer). The IEU will share a financial unit with the PCU, and will have staff within
the financial unit assigned specifically to manage finance and administration for Component 1.
In order to ensure fluid and opportune implementation of this component, agreement has been
reached with GOES to subcontract out the implementation of the activities in Subcomponerit l.a to
a private construction management firm. The construction management firm (to be selected using
Bank Consultant Guidelines and under terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank) will
function as the implementing entity, leaving only decision making on bid awards/contracting,
requests for disbursement and payment for contracts to MOH. The construction management firm
will function as the implementing entity, leaving only decision making on bid awards/contracting,
requests for disbursement and payment for contracts to MOH. The firm will: (a) review final
designs provided by MOH; (b) prepare a construction procurement plan; (c) prepare technical
specifications; (d) prepare and conduct the bidding processes for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the hospitals (a member of the IEU will be included in the evaluation committee to
make an award recommendation to MOH); (e) verify the equipment inventory prepared by -he
MOH; (f) prepare an equipment procurement plan; (g) prepare technical specifications for
equipment; (h) prepare and conduct the bidding processes for equipment (a member of the IEU
will be included in the evaluation committee to make an award recommendation to MOH); (i)
prepare contracts for contractors and supervise their work; (j) prepare payment orders and their
documentation for contractors: (k) prepare contract amendments and the necessary documentation;
(I) manage breach of contracts and contractor complaints; (m) maintain contract accounts and
prepare contract management reports in a manner acceptable to the Bank; (n) prepare periodic
reports for physical/financial and procurement plan monitoring; (o) prepare all technical and
financial reports requested by GOES, MOH and IBRD, and, (p) prepare SOEs for replenishment of
the Special Account. The contract with the CMF will give it full responsibility for the quality of
the construction and the opportune implementation of contract schedules. It will be responsible for
contracting the necessary inspectors.
The role of the Infrastructure Executing Unit (IEU) in MOH will be limited to a review of
documents prepare by the contract management firm for completeness to ensure that they are
complying with agreed procedures, draft and process construction contracts, prepare SOEs. and
send the necessary documentation for the Bank's no objection and when necessary, to the Office of
the Minister for signature and the IEU will also spot check and verify the information provided by
the firm in its technical and financial reports. It will also manage the project account for the~
Component through the Project financial unit.
(For a detailed description of the roles of the construction management firm vis-a-vis MO}I
Infrastructure Executing Unit, and their staffing see Table below).
71



Functions of Firm vis-i-vis MOH Infrastructure Executing Unit
Construction Management Firm            MOH/Infrastructure Executing
Unit
Financial
Info System for      Set up and maintain financial and       Will have access to the MIS when
Project/IBRD needs    management information system          necessary.
independent of its own operations to
follow up on contract execution, and to be
able to provide IBRD with timely
information on component accounts and
contract progress.
Reports                                                      Prepare PMRs and send to IBRD
Payment              Prepares payment orders and their       Reviews completeness of payment
documentation for review and signature of  orders and makes payments
Ministry
Replenishment of                                             Prepares SOEs and send to IBRD
Special Account
Auditing                                                     Prepares TORs for auditing-
contracting will be done from the
PCU.
Procurement
Planning             Prepare annual procurement plan for     Review and submit Procurement
component for the year.                 Plan to IBRD for n.o.
Bidding              Prepares procurement notices, bidding   Reviews completeness of bidding
documents, and conducts bidding process,  docs, sends to IBRD for n.o.,
making recommendation to MOH            participates in bidding committee,
presents results to Minister and
obtains clearance for drafting of
contract
Contracts            Prepares contracts (for MOH) for        Obtains n.o. from IBRD, obtains
construction firms and equipment        contract signature by Minister (a
providers                               maximum of 8 contracts are
foreseen)
Supervision/Implementation
Planning             Carries out all preparatory activities to  Reviews supervision plan and agrees
initiate contract, prepares supervision plan   on reporting arrangements in
for each contract, prepares contract    consultation with IBRD
resolution procedures, agrees on reporting
arrangements with MOH/IBRD.
Supervision          Supervises physical and financial       Conduct spot checks of information
execution of each contract (quantity,   reported by Firm
quality)
Construction         Manages contractor breach of contract or
Management           contractor complaints
Reporting            Prepare reports on contract management    Reviews and submits reports to
for MOH, IBRD, GOES as needed           GOES/IBRD
(monthly for MOH, quarterly for IBRD)
72



Disbursement|
Setting up Special Account                                I Ensure MOF sets up Special Account
Open Project Account                                       Open Account in Commercial Bank
to receive S.A. transfers
Planning                  Prepare annual disbursement      Include disbursement prowjctions in
projections for the year.        annual implementation plan
Replenishment of Special                                  I Prepare SOEs and withdrawal
Account                                                    applications for replenishmiient of SA
Staffing for CMF                 Staffing for IEU
Unit Manager (unit dedicated to the  Civil Engineer, Architect
component)
Civil Works Specialist           Legal Counsel (on retainer)
Part-time Equipment Specialist
Finance and Administration       Financial Unit (USEFI)
Specialist
Legal Counsel (part time)       __._=                           -
Professional Profile of Construction Management Firm
At least five years of legal existence, including necessary permits, etc. as construction management
firm working in the preparation, supervision and management of civil works projects.
At least three years experience in the preparation, supervision and management of construction of
large high complexity buildings, such as industrial buildings, hotels, or hospitals.
Demonstrate an accumulated experience in the preparation of engineering and architectuiral projects
of at least 20,000 square meters including works of at least 3,000 square meters each.
Demonstrate experience in the supervision of construction contracts (US$30 million in tie last
three years).
Should have some experience, preferably, with the management of infrastructure projects as a
coordinating or technical unit.
Component Implementation
The reconstruction and rehabilitation of hospitals entail at least three phases: feasibility, design and
construction. These are described below. (Refer to Gant Chart for overall time frame fo-
implementation).
Feasibility Phase (to be completed mostly during project preparation and all prior to
effectiveness):
This phase includes the analysis of the structural damage and internal functionality of the each
hospital and an analysis of the functionality of the hospitals within the context of the ovc rall health
network. The final product will be a master plan for the hospital network, outlining whal services
will be delivered where, the level of technology that will be sought, and how the differerit facilities
and levels of care are linked with one another.
As part of project preparation, an initial detailed analysis of the damage suffered by each hospital
was conducted to determine the feasibility of rehabilitating each structure, and the estimated cost of
rehabilitating versus reconstructing it. In addition, the Pan American Health Organization
73



conducted two assessments of the damage (without cost estimates). The conclusions of the
analyses were similar although the estimated costs of reconstruction varied. Overall, the reports
generally agreed on the recommendations.
Rehabilitation: All reports have agreed that the San Juan de Dios Hospital in San Miguel, San
Pedro Hospital in Usulutan, the central tower of the San Rafael Hospital in La Libertad, and the
Zacatecoluca hospital should be rehabilitated.
Replacement: There was agreement that the rest of the San Rafael Hospital and the Maternidad
Nacional in San Salvador should be replaced due to the damage suffered. In addition, there was
agreement that the Cojutepeque Hospital in Cuscatlan and the Santa Gertrudis Hospital in San
Vicente should be reconstructed due not just to the damage suffered but to the dysfunctional of the
current structures, as the conditions of the hospitals pose an even greater threat to patient's health
than the damage caused by the earthquake.
A study under way as part of preparation functional analysis of the health network will propose a
strategy and a plan to improve the functionality of the MOH hospital network to: (i) redefine the
match between services, human resources, infrastructure and technology; and (iii) propose an
orderly distribution of facilities and services based on functional criteria, demand and referral flows
with special focus in seven hospital facilities. This study will identify the service needs of each
hospital, leading to changes in technology with a likely greater emphasis on ambulatory care and
day hospitals, and possibly reducing the number of needed beds. The results will be reflected in a
Master Investment Plan for the health network in the project area. This study is being conducted
simultaneously with the detailed structural analyses but will provide key inputs for the proposals
derived from the structural studies. This master plan will become a policy document to guide
MOH. This study will be completed by November, and the Master Plan before December 1, 2001.
Detailed structural analyses are being conducted in the two of he three hospitals to be rehabilitated
(San Miguel and Usulutan). These studies will provide detailed analyses of what was damaged, an
internal functionality analysis, and provide solutions to their rehabilitation, bring them up to current
seismic code standards and estimate costs. . The final designs will take into account results of the
functional analysis of the health network (described above) to ensure that functionality of the
network is improved. Together with the results of the functional analysis, these will specify the
equipment to be purchased. Final lists of eligible equipment will be completed by end of
November 2001 and will be reviewed by the Bank.
A final activity under the feasibility stage is the identification and evaluation of alternative sites for
the three hospitals that GOES wants to relocate. Site selection will take into account the size, site
configuration, access by public transportation, cost, topography, water quality, soil quality,
readiness for construction, and environmental aspects (pollutants, noise, congestion). GOES has
agreed to complete site selection by end of November 2001. The selection will imply the previous
topographical and general environmental studies have been conducted so that there are assurances
the hospital will not have to be re-sited again. The detailed environmental impact analysis will be
conducted during the detailed design phase. GOES will send the site selection for each of the
hospitals to be relocated with the necessary assessments to the Bank by November. The locations
of the sites being considered were submitted to the Bank during negotiations and were visited
during appraisal.
74



Design Phase:
The design phase includes the preparation of design briefs on each hospital, containing details of
the requirements for each hospital (as identified in the master plan), the preparation of design
proposals and schematic designs of the selected proposal, and finally, the detailed design. As part
of the design phase, technical environmental specifications for construction management will be
prepared that will be applied to all works.
Rehabilitation: Design briefs for the three hospitals to be rehabilitated will be prepared, indicating
what modifications need to be introduced to improve the intemal functionality of the hospital,
reinforce the structure so that it meets current seismic code standards, and so that it is well
integrated into the health network. Design briefs will also indicate whether or not the hosp)tals are
to be rehabilitated in stages so as to permit partial use of facilities at all times. Design briefs will
be reviewed and approved by MOH and validated by the CMF and sent to the Bank to ensure that it
has no objection.
Once design briefs are finalized, focus group discussions will be held with groups of users of the
hospitals to inquire as to their perceptions regarding the pre-earthquake structures, and reaction to
the proposed modifications to the previous structure and services. Results of these focus group
discussions will feed in to the designs and ensure acceptability.
Based on these design briefs, designs for the three structures to be rehabilitated (San Miguel,
Zacatecoluca and Usulutan) will be finalized. These will be reviewed both by MOHIEU and the
CMF. This will help to minimize any amendments to the original designs. It is expected that these
designs will be finalized by mid-January 2002. Should any of these hospitals require an extension,
an environmental impact assessment will have to be conducted before the designs are finalized.
Simultaneously, and based on the inventory of equipment, equipment needs will be identified. The
CMF will be responsible for preparing a plan for the procurement of equipment.
In the case of San Rafael, the structural analysis of the damage to the remaining building and the
design of the new structure will be handled by the same engineers/architects, and will not be
commissioned until the master plan is close to being finalized.
Bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the three hospitals will be prepared by the CMF,
reviewed by the IEU and sent to the Bank for no objection. Bidding will be conducted-awards
are to be expected within eight months, including pre-qualification, and four months without pre-
qualification.
Replacement: Design briefs for the four hospitals to be reconstructed will be prepared based on the
Functional Design Plan. These will include a detail of the services to be provided in each hospital,
and the space requirement for each, and areas of circulation. Design briefs will give the detail
architects/civil engineers need to prepare preliminary designs (schematic designs), which, once
discussed with MOH/IEU, can proceed to detailed design, including architectural, structural and
mechanical aspects, and will include technical specifications, an estimated detailed budget and an
implementation plan. As indicated above, topographical, soil, and general environmental
assessments will be conducted early on to ensure proper sites were selected to relocate the new
hospitals. Detailed environmental impact assessments will be conducted early on during the
detailed design stage. They will be sent to the Bank for no objection prior to the finalization of
designs
75



As in the case of the hospitals to be rehabilitated, focus group discussions will be held with groups
of users of the hospitals to be reconstructed to inquire as to their perceptions regarding the pre-
earthquake structures, and reaction to the proposed new structures and services. Results of these
focus group discussions will feed in to the designs and ensure acceptability.
Once detailed designs are finalized and agreed upon by the MOH/IEU, they will be reviewed and
validated by the CMF. Any modifications that are deemed necessary will be introduced prior to the
preparation of bidding documents. The CMF will prepare the bidding documents for review by the
Bank. The CMF and IEU will conduct the bidding process jointly. The bidding process will take
between 4 and 8 months. Bidding for the equipment will be done separately, and will be done
jointly for more than one hospital where feasible. It will be based on needs specified in the design
briefs. The CMF will prepare the technical specifications and bidding documents for the
procurement of this equipment.
Construction. Construction contracts will be managed by the CMF. The contract with the CMF
will make them responsible for the quality of the construction and its timeliness. The CMF will
maintain an MIS to keep track of subcomponent costs and physical advance. The sites will be
handed over to each contractor awarded a contract. The CMF will assign teams to supervise each
of the works during the full construction period. It will supervise construction advance and prepare
the necessary documentation and payment orders to pay contractors as specified in the individual
contracts. It will also contract inspectors to assess the quality of building materials employed and
ensure they are complying with agreed standards. The IEU will make the payments from the
project account. The CMF will also administer contractor complaints and prepare amendments to
contracts. The CMF will prepare bidding documents for the purchase of equipment and conduct the
bidding process with the IEU once construction is under way. Only equipment contained in a
predefined list will be eligible for funding. Upon completion of a construction, the CMF will
conduct an inspection of the building, drawing up a list of defects and unfinished products. The
contractor will address and fix the defects. A similar inspection will be made of the installed
equipment. The facility will be inspected to ensure defects were addressed and it will be handed
over to MOH.
Operation. Training on the use of new equipment will be provided to staff before the facility is
opened. The maintenance program will be implemented.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
A Technical and Financial Auditing Firm will be selected on a competitive basis to monitor the
performance of the IEU and the CMF. In order to increase transparency of all activities this firn
will report directly to the Office of the Minister as reflected in the organization chart. TORs for
this firm will be prepared and reviewed during loan negotiations and selection of the firm will be a
condition of effectiveness.
The CMF will maintain a detailed MIS to monitor construction execution. In addition, the MIS
will contain indicators agreed upon with the Bank. The IEU will visit the CMF on a weekly basis
to review progress and discuss pending issues. It will also conduct frequent spot checks on
hospitals to verify the progress reported and check on the quality of the construction.
The CMF though the IEU, will send information from the MIS to the Bank on a quarterly basis and
agreed indicators on a semi-annual basis. The Bank will visit project sites at least twice a year.
An external impact evaluation will be conducted to assess the effects of overall project
76



interventions using the indicators of the logical framework as a reference. Specific indicators will
be included to examine the impact of functional improvements in the operation and utilization of
hospitals, level of intrahospital infection rates, etc. The impact evaluation will use household-
based data and facility-based data.
77



Annex 2b: Institutional Modernization Benchmark Matrix (IMBM)
Strategic Area    Objective        First Program Review                Second Program Review
Strengthening    Increase
of Essential    access and                                      Alternative delivery model under
Health and      coverage for                                    implementation by MOH primary providers
Nutrition       low-income                                      in earthquake-affected areas that includes:
Services in     populations                                     integration of nutrition and essential health
earthquake-     living in the                                   services, establishment of a team approach
affected and    Northern                                        to care delivery and application of an
extremely poor   Corridor                                       outreach model for service provision.
areas.          Departments
and for                                        Contracts signed with at least five NGOs to
populations                                    provide basic health care to approximately
living in                                      75,000 people.
earthquake-
affected areas.
Monitoring and   Strengthen    Presentation to Bank of action plan    Action plan for strengthening monitoring
evaluation      MOH            for monitoring and evaluation of  and evaluation unit under implementation
monitoring    project-financed activities and  including: (i) contracting of a "partner"
and           strengthening MOE1[ monitoring and   firm or institution to support capacity
evaluation    evaluation capacity approved by  building activities; (ii) presentation to Bank
capacity      MOH.                             of results of baseline survey for monitoring
and evaluation of project outcomes,
including results from a household survey
in regions where basic health and nutrition
services are supported.
Financing and    Augment       Additional financial resources   Additional financial resources allocated in
Resource        public         allocated in the MOH 2002 budget to  the MOH 2003 or 2004 budget to finance
allocation      financing for  finance NGO contracts currently  extension of essential health and nutrition
extension of   financed by USAID through SALSA.  services according to plan agreed to with
basic health                                    Bank.
care in poor
areas and                                      Strategy document, allocation formula and
improve                                        implementation plan approved by MOH to
equity in                                      increase funding to underserved areas.
MOH
budgetary
allocations.
Legal and       Improve the                                     Approval by MOH of strategy and
regulatory      quality of care                                 corresponding instruments to assess and
framework       in public and                                   implement "licensing" standards for public
private                                        and private medical facilities
facilities by
introducing                                    Approval by MOH of total quality
stronger and                                   improvement strategy for obstetric and
more                                           prenatal, care in MOH hospitals.
effective
regulations                                    Draft strategy for hospital management
improvement presented to MOH and Bank.
78



Strategic Area    Objective          First Program Review                 Second Program Review
Strengthen    Regulation restructuring MOH       Draft of strengthened versicn of Health
legal         approved by GOES.                  Code submitted to MOH that includes, inter
framework for                                    alia, provision to define cornpetencies of
MOH as                                           institutions within the health sector and
regulatory                                       integrate currently separate laws.
agency                                     .
Public health    Improve        Approval by MOH of strategy and   Dengue detection and control program
competencies of  results of     action plan that includes: (i)    implemented in five urban riunicipalities,
MOH              national       establishment of effective        according to action plan agreed with Bank,
priority      entomological surveillance system  including, inter alia, collect..on of base line
programs in   for high prevalence communicable    data on prevalence.
public health.  diseases, (ii) strengthening of
environmental health functions; and    MOH approval of solid ancl toxic waste
(iii) improving toxic waste       management and disposal policy and plan.
management and disposal in MOH    Implementation of action plan in at least
facilities.                       two hospitals and four basic health units.
MOH              To strengthen   MOH formally adopts an institutional  MOH will have implemented the
Institutional   the capacity    strengthening and decentralization  institutional strengthening sirategy
Strengthening    of MOH to    strategy that (i) contains the long-  presenting evidence of: (i) ai least three
formulate and  term mission, vision and objectives    SIBASIs functioning in earthquake-affected
implement     of a modernized MOH; (ii) the      areas supported through Component 11,
institutional    definition of roles and competencies   including the signing of performance
development   of health districts (SIBASIs) and the   agreements with MOH, preparation and
policies.     elimination of Departmental Offices;  implementation of at least cine territorial
(iii) reassignment of MOH staff to    health plan, and agreement reached on
the to-be-established SIBASIs     terms and indicators for evaluation of
without increasing MOH's          SIBASls; and (ii) health services
administrative budget; (iv)       purchasing department estaHished.
application of performance
agreements between MOH and
SIBASIs; (v) use of performance-
based targets for MOH providers
within SIBASIs; and (vi) preparation
of territorial health plans.
To strengthen   Approval by MOH of personnel     Approval by MOH and Bank of strategy
management   management strategy and action      and action plan to strengthern financial
systems of    plan.                              management functions.
MOH
Implementation of personnel management
strategy and action plan acc(irding to
approved action plan.
Strategic plan approved by MOH on the
implementation of health information
system, including the priorit'zation of
modules
79



Strategic Area    Objective        First Program Review                Second Program Review
Community       To strengthen  MOH approval of strategy and action  Implementation of community participation
participation in  the role of  plan on the introduction of      mechanisms in the same communities
supervision of    community    community participation mechanisms  where essential health and nutrition service
health care     participation   in support of the extension and  extension is implemented, according to
quality         in the         strengthening basic health and   strategy and action plan approved by MOH.
oversight of   nutrition services.
clinical
management
and delivery
of services
80






Annex 2c: Social Assessment
(for Components II-IV)
Background
Objectives. The main objectives of the social assessment are to: (a) identify the key social development
issues and social actors involved in the project's design; (b) provide inputs to the design of the project's
outputs and outcomes; (c) understand the institutional arrangements that prevail in the health sector and
promote those that will allow for a closer partnership with civil society organizations, communities, and
beneficiaries; and (d) suggest processes and indicators for monitoring and evaluation.
A two-phase social assessment. The social assessment (SA) is organized in two phases. The first, to
which this annex refers, addresses the magnitude of social development issues in the health sector,
dealing mainly with how the poor are being reached and how do they react to some arrangements and
programs addressed to them. The second phase should take place at the outset of project implementation,
as part of the set of baseline studies needed for the M&E, including a household survey. It will also
support the design of services and institutional arrangements that are needed by the poor. It will
undertake: (a) an evaluation of benefits and problems faced by the SALSA program in the Northern
Region, which will be the basis for monitoring the proposed model for contracting services with NGOs
and other private providers in order to expand coverage; (b) a beneficiary assessment in the Central area,
updating a previous assessment whose focus was the role of health promoters (this one will focus on the
SIBASI model); and (c) an assessment of the adequacy of the type of services provided by the hospitals to
be reconstructed, based on the perception by the beneficiaries of their needs. This annex refers to some of
the achievements of the first phase. Most of the recommendations are part of the project's final design and
implementation arrangements or will be integrated into the operational manual of the project. This annex
summarizes some of this information. The main background documents from which this annex draws are
in the project files.
Data source. This annex drew upon several sources. The first is the official report of the 1998 Encuesta
Nacional de Salud Familiar (FESAL 1998). This survey, which has a sample size of 25,269 households,
is the seventh of a series conducted by the Salvadoran Demographic Association since 1973, and since
1985 it has included indicators of maternal and children's health. The second source is a series of
interviews conducted, specifically for the social assessment] with the staff of the MOH. The third source
is the 2001 report Evaluacion Rapida de Capacidad de ONGs para Prestar Servicios Basicos de Salud en
Areas Rurales de El Salvador by Hedi Deman and Margarita Montey. This report is based on fieldwork
by 17 NGOs that work in the rural health field. The fourth source is the 1990 report Challenges in El
Salvador's Rural Health Care Strategy, by Maureen Lewis, Gunnar S. Eskeland, and Ximena Traa-
Valerezo. This report is based on: (i) a national multipurpose household survey; (ii) focus group surveys
in 23 rural villages with 351 women and with groups of men in 10 villages and interviews with health
promoters and community leaders in these villages; (iii) a survey of the 315 women who participated in
the focus groups; and (iv) several MOH reports on health indicators using information collected in public
and private health facilities.
Social development issues and outcomes
The proposed project covers two areas that have been affected by physical and military shocks during the
last 20 years, impairing their demographics, economic survival, and social fabric, and consequently the
health status of the population, the availability of services, and shrinking access to those services that are
in existence. In the North, the project will be facing the challenge of expanding coverage to an area that
was heavily fought over during the last civil war; whereas in the Central or Para-Central regions, it will be
facing the challenge of the aftermath of a natural disaster. The Northern region has been traditionally
81



isolated, with precarious access to health care and with the population very often excluded from basic
services and from formal medical and health arrangements. During the war, health care was provided via
informal arrangements provided by national and international NGOs, all of which left the area once the
war was over, withdrawing the financial support of many local organizations. In early 2001, the Central
and Para-Central regions suffered two major earthquakes that destroyed material and producl ve capital,
infrastructure, and public assets such as health facilities, hospitals, and educational institutions. As a
consequence, there are reports that in municipalities almost the entire adult male population has out-
migrated.
Since 1992, while El Salvador has experienced economic progress (but with a succession of setbacks),
health indicators have lagged behind. Life expectancy is 69.4 years (figures from 1998), mat.rnal
mortality is 120 per 100,000 (figures from 1993-1998), and infant mortality is 35 per 1,000 live births
(figures from 1993-1998). Meanwhile, the number of hospital beds per inhabitant is 1.2 per I 000. and
there are only 11.7 physicians and 4.4 certified nurses per 10,000 inhabitants. In 1998, 25 per3ent of all
births in health facilities were by cesarean section, and 34 percent of mothers were in the 10-', 9 age
group. Although the fertility rate has declined (to 3.6 for women aged 15-39 in the period 1993-1998) to
become the second lowest rate in Central America (higher only than Costa Rica), it is still too high,
particularly in the case of women with low formal education and/or living in rural areas who often have as
many as five children. The median age of woman's first childbirth is 20.5 years, and this has remained
unchanged in the last 25 years. Thirty-five percent of births were unplanned in 1998, with 15 percent of
them being unwanted. Indeed, although almost 80 percent of married women aged 15-44 declared in 1998
that they did not want to be pregnant, 40 percent of this group does not use any contraception I
Children's health status is poor particularly in rural areas and in the less developed Northern region,
bordering Honduras. Only one in three children has had its first checkup during the first monlh of its life,
and this is also the maximum proportion of babies who benefit from newborn health services. No
department in the country has succeeded in reaching an acceptable level of coverage for this service.
Although immunization has increased substantially, particularly in rural areas, 20 percent of children
younger than five have not been immunized with lall of the six main vaccines (BCG against tuberculosis,
poliomyelitis against polio, DPT against diphteria-pertusis-tetanus, and measles.) One out of every three
children younger than 5 years old had had a respiratory infection in the two weeks previous to the FESAL
1998 survey. Twenty percent of children whose mothers were interviewed for the same survev had had
diarrhea during the two weeks previous to the survey (25 percent in rural areas). In the departments of
Ahuachapan, Sonsonate, and Chalantenango, severe dehydration was found in 8.5 percent, 14.7 percent,
and 10.6 percent of children respectively during the two weeks before their mother was interviewed.
Overall, diarrhea was more common among children younger than 2 years of age when they tre more
vulnerable.
The health care system is overloaded by having to deal with illnesses that most of the time could have
been prevented. Respiratory infections, parasites, diarrhea, and skin infections are four of the five diseases
with the highest incidence in El Salvador, while respiratory diseases, parasites, abortions, and premature
deliveries account for four of the most frequent reasons for hospitalization.
HIV/AIDS. There is a growth in behavior-based diseases among adults, such as HIV/AIDS, particularly
in urban areas. Results of the FESAL 1998 survey of women of reproductive age indicate thal 91 percent
know about the existence of HIV/AIDS, but 15 percent are unaware that there is no known cure for this
disease (this numberjumps to more than 20 percent in the department of Chalatenango). Women who
have better knowledge about HIV/AIDS are those who are single, aged 15-24 years, have 10 or more
' The contraceptive prevalence rate in El Salvador is 15 percent lower than the rate in Costa Rica, is similar to the
rate in Nicaragua, and is 10 percent and 28 percent higher than the rates in Honduras and Guatemala respectively.
82



years of education, belong to a well-off socioeconomic group, and are either currently using contraception
or have never had sexual intercourse. One can conclude that knowledge is weaker among those whose
risk is greater. Women who are willing to use condoms if their partner suggests it are urban, have 10 or
more years of education, belong to a well-off socioeconomic group, and perceive themselves to have little
risk of acquiring HIV/AIDS.
Access to services. As indicated by Lewis, Erkeland, and Traa-Velarezao, there is extensive knowledge
about the availability of health care services, and preventive health care is, in theory, readily accessible in
most villages. However, demand is minimal and rural households visit health facilities only for serious
illnesses. The reality is that access is constrained by several factors such as convenience (the days and
hours involved in operations and waiting time), quality, and costs (of services, transportation, and
sometimes lodging). Also, distances can be deceptive; sometimes, although the worst-off households may
not live further than 12 kilometers from a health provider, getting there may take two or three days.
In general, participants in the survey conducted by these authors made more positive comments about
health centers and hospitals than lower levels of care because of they have longer hours, they provide
emergency service, and they have a more adequate supply of medication, staff, and specialists. If they
have a choice, people will choose these facilities over health posts and health units. Drug availability
often appears to be a determining factor for choosing a facility. The general perception throughout the
country is that health posts and health units do not have as much medication as they used to, and people
are reluctant to go to facilities where there is a low probability of having adequate stocks of medication.
Medication is believed to be more readily available at health centers and hospitals, at prices significantly
below those at pharmacies. If drugs are not included in the consultation fee, they are dispensed from the
pharmacy inside the facility at nominal costs. Most patients walk out of a health facility with at least one
prescription in hand. As mentioned by a participant in a focus group for that study, "If I have money for
the bus, it is better to go to the hospital. They have medicine."
Lack of Convenience as an impediment to access
*   "Health posts operate only twice a week. Consultation is only until noon. The doctor is not
always there. Sometimes only the nurse assistant is present. Waiting time is three hours on
average. Only those who arrive by 8 get a consultation. "
*   "Health units operate only 5 days a week. Although hours of operation should be until 3 or
4 p.m., consultations are not available after 1 p. m. That is not enough. Waiting time is 3.5
hours on average. Health units also lack medication. "
*   "The post here is useless because there is no doctor or nurse, and it is only open two days a
week until noon. " (Potrero Sula)
*   Source. Lewis, Ekeland, and Traa- Velarezao.
For the rural poor, the most common modes of transportation for medical assistance include: on foot (with
patients sometimes being carried by family members), by horse or mule, on foot on the way to catch a
bus, and by commercial pick-up truck. For emergencies during off-hours (between 5pm and Sam), hiring
a pick-up truck to transport a patient to a health center or hospital around 20 kilometers costs between
US$12- $60. In communities without electricity and with poor roads, pick-up trucks often refuse to
accommodate such requests due to the risks associated with eroded roads and the risk of being assaulted.
Alternatively, families transport patients in a hammock carried by two or four men: "In case of
emergency we carry the sick in a hammock. The road is so bad that even trucks refuse to drive on it"
(San Antonio de Opico). Indeed, the lack of accessible roads was stressed by focus groups as the single
biggest deterrent to seeking health care services. Private vehicles are unaffordable for most of the
sampled communities. A bus service exists directly to some villages but typically making only two round
trips per day. In 18 of the communities interviewed for the fieldwork, people walked for between 30
83



minutes and two hours to a bus stop or walked for one or two hours to the facility. In short, faizilities exist
but they are often difficult to reach.
Institutional issues
Ministrv of Health and Social Assistance: Institutional Modernization. The MOH is the instilutional
leader of the health sector in El Salvador. Its main responsibility is to provide preventive and curative
health services. It defines, coordinates, and executes the national health policy. To enhance essential
health services, the Ministry has proposed a new organizational and decentralization model, known as the
Basic System for Comprehensive Health (Sistema Basico de Salud lntegral - SIBA4SI). Its main objective,
for the period 2000-20001, is to provide primary (preventive and curative) health care to the most
vulnerable groups. This target population has been identified at three different levels: individU;al, family
and households, and community and environment.2 The main components of SIBASI are: (i)
comprehensive health care; (ii) targeting (of vulnerable regions and groups, including by gencer and age);
(iii) the provision of health services; and (iv) financing of health and social involvement in health
programs. The system has been strengthened by a revision of the organizational structure, norns, and
procedures, by research, and by an attempt to increase coverage by developing infrastructure and
providing equipment.
Programs to the Poor: Nutrition and SALSA . Currently, two initiatives of the Ministry of Health are
worth noticing and are relevant to the health project. The first initiative, currently being designed, aims to
diminish the alarming rate of malnutrition in the rural areas. The second, now being implemer ted, aims to
provide basic health care to the poorest populations by contracting NGOs. Together, they provide insights
into the strengths and weaknesses of policymaking by the Ministry of Health.
(i) Nutrition. The nutrition program targets pregnant women and children under two y ears old.
This program produced a guide for improving the diet and nutrition of families and hc'useholds to
be disseminated in coordination with the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, and Ec mnonmics.
The operational strategy is to use the guide to train Voluntary Nutrition Counselors to work at the
community level as itinerant workers who travel across communities measuring children, keeping
records, and advising on nutrition. The health network developed under the SIBASI p:rogram
aimed to provide primary health services to the families and households covered by AIN.
Evaluations of this model in Honduras have shown that it has increased child nutritional status at
a sustainable cost.
Although it has several merits, the model could be improved in the following areas. First, it must
address gender bias, in the sense that promoters are always women and only women are involved
in the households that are assisted by promoters. As a result, this reinforces the cultural norms of
not involving men in childcare while at the same time increasing still further the workh:oad of poor
women. Second, the criteria for selecting promoters could be improved, and third, monitoring and
evaluation could also be improved.
(ii) SALSA Program: Experiences with NGOs. The SALSA program is implemented by the
Ministry of Health with support from USAID. It covers rural areas of 13 municipalities across the
country. According to official documentation, its main objective is to build models of integral
health care through a partnership among the Ministry of Health, NGOs, and communil ies,
particularly by: (a) promoting participatory citizenship; (b) contributing to the integral health of
individuals with efficiency, efficacy, and equity; (c) promoting actions that minimize
2 These groups were defined taking into account the following variables: age, morbidity, mortality, nutrition,
reproductive and sexual health, sanitation, and environment.
84



environmental risks; (d) strengthening the coordination among the Ministry of Health, the
Church, and the police; (e) delivering health services; and (f) promoting health and basic
environmental education.
The main achievement of SALSA was to integrate NGOs into the institutional arrangements of
the Ministry of Health - paving the way for the proposed health project. This is not trivial in a
society that is strongly centralized and is emerging from a long and violent civil war.
Nonetheless, there are many lessons to be leamed from the program. In particular, the criteria for
selecting beneficiaries and NGOs was unclear, the program was poorly integrated into the
structure of the Ministry (there was particularly poor interaction between the SALSA head unit
and others unit of the Ministry that also deal with rural communities), and there was no clearly
defined monitoring and evaluation system to track the program's performance, financing, and
accountability.
Promoters. MOH promoters focus on health care promotion and education through "chats," mostly on
issues of hygiene. They check records on immunizations, baby care, pre/post natal care, and follow-up
health facility consultations. In addition to these functions, NGO providers offer antibiotic treatment for
acute respiratory infection (ARI) and enteric diarrhea infection (EDI), and supply contraceptives.
A recent study found that MOH promoters have inadequate equipment (such as first aid kits,
stethoscopes, measuring tapes, and thermometers) and medication (such as ORS, acetaminophen,
analgesics, and parasite pills). Some admit they have nothing to offer other than a referral. NGO
promoters usually carry or at least have in their home or office a stethoscope, a tensiometer, a first aid kit,
acetaminophen, antibiotics (Amoxicillin, Bactrim, and Salbutanol), prenatal vitamins, iron supplements, a
thermometer, and an adult and a baby scale. These basic complementary inputs, which give NGO
promoters credibility and something to offer their patients other than admonishments, are typically not
available to MOH promoters.
Role of intermediary associations: NGOs
NGOs. During project preparation, an NGOs assessment was carried out to analyze their organizational
capacity, particularly of those who might eventually be involved in the project. The assessment studied a
sample of 17 NGOs providing services in rural areas, six of which have not participated in previous
activities carried out by the MOH.3 Many of them receive grants from intemational donors, and many of
them work for different governmental institutions. Most of the NGOs in the assessment have worked in
the geographical areas where the project will be implemented. Particularly, the objective was to examine
NGO's capacity to: (a) deliver services; (b) supervise, monitor, and evaluate; and (c) manage finances.
To analyze each of these areas, the team selected a set of indicators that were ranked to obtain an
organizational capacity indicator.4 As a result, the assessment identified the NGOs with the highest
ranking in each of the areas and determined their years of experience, their skill-mix composition, and the
areas in which they would need training to increase their capacities.
Fields of expertise. The assessment identified each NGO's main focus. Apart from SSL, which is
devoted to research and education, all stated that providing basic and primary health services is one of
their core working areas, together w ith micro-credit and nutrition. Twelve of the 16 identified health as
3During 1986 to 1999, 36 NGOs worked on the project Maternal Health and Children Survival (PROSAMI). In
1996, 18 participated in SETEFE, and the rest participated in SALSA, established in 1998.
4 The ranking methodology is explained in "Evaluaci6n rcipida de capacidad de ONGs para prestar servicios
baisicos de salud en areas rurales de El Salvador" by Heidi Deman and Margarita de Monroy. MOH and World
Bank. 2000. For the purpose of this document, results are classified in order of importance.
85



one the main areas, 10 identified education, seven identified micro-credit, and four identified nutrition.
Reproductive health, training, sanitation, environment, community development, and intra-family
violence are some of the other areas identified as key.
Thirteen of the 17 NGOs that were studied have programs that provide primary health services. The
services include care for children under five years old and students. maternal delivery assistance, family
planning, basic health care, sanitation, immunization, and physical rehabilitation. All of the NG(Os
recognized the importance of training for their staff but few had the resources to do it. Regardiri g
monitoring and evaluation, although some of the NGOs keep registers of deaths and of the incidence of
diseases, the effort is not continuous and there is insufficient information with which to assess the impact
of their actions or the relationship between their actions and results. The absence of this information is
due to a lack of training, resources, and demand from the Minister of Health rather than to a lact, of
willingness or to negligence. All of the NGOs have some kind of auditing and some kind of simple
computerized financial management in place, although it is unclear how this system links administration,
procurement, disbursement, and accounting.
Table I summarizes the services provided by NGOs. It shows that the NGOs with the highest ranking
have the greatest experience in most of the areas included in the project's components. It also shows that
none of the assessed NGOs have experience in providing services on HIV or in organizing activities to
assist populations affected by natural disasters.
NGOs and beneficiary participation. Paradoxically. NGOs suffer from the same lack of participatory
approaches as the government in delivering services. Beneficiaries interviewed for the study agreed that
they received services but that was all. Except for cleaning the facilities (women) or behaving as their
guards for security purpose (men), nothing else was expected from them. On the other hand, they were
aware of the importance of targeting, and some had designed a mapa de riesgo pointing out whi:ch
households should be visited and those which should be frequently visited and for what type of
interventions.
Conclusions.
-  Health indicators show that the strengthening of the health sector must be a priority for El Salvador.
They also indicate that there are specific vulnerable groups in both urban and rural areas: women,
children aged 0-4; and young people. Women, particularly in rural areas, have their first pregnancy
at a very early age (about one third of deliveries are for women between 10-19 years), the intervals
between pregnancies are too short, and fertility rates are too high. Abortions account for one of the
five most frequent causes for hospitalization. Twenty-three percent of children suffer from
malnutrition. Amongyoung people, unsafe sex has led to pregnancies and AIDS, particularly for
those with less income and education.
*  Access is constrained by several factors: working schedules (days and hours of operations and
waiting time), the quality of human resources and the limited supply of drugs, costs (of services,
transportation, and sometimes lodging), and distances.
*  In theory, the health system is well structured to reach the population, including those at risk.
However, in practice, there are too many isolated programs that do not interact. SALSA illustrates
many of their problems: financed through grants, with doubtful accountability, limited coverage,
unclear targeting, and an impact that cannot be measured.
*  The interaction among departments of the Ministrv of Health is weak - the staff members wvho were
86



interviewed did not know what others were doing in the same area of primary care.
* Community participation - and not only in El Salvador - seems to be the new panacea for solving
problems. In the case of SIBASI, SALSA, and the new nutrition proposal, it is unclear whether this
is an approach or a goal. The roles, responsibilities, accountability, and interaction of communities
with government health institutions have not been specified in any of these cases.
Recommendations: The following are the principal recommendations resulting from the social
assessment. They have been discussed with the project team and are integrated into the project design or
are contemplated as project-financed activities:
*  Define those groups that are most vulnerable and revise the targeting criteria accordingly. Define a
package of priority interventions to the most vulnerable for the main areas of the project.
*  An integral health approach should include men in all its activities, including childcare, nutrition,
and reproductive health.
*  Establish mechanisms to link the activities, projects, and programs carried out within the Ministry to
allow for information to be shared, lessons to be learned, and overlapping and cumbersome
procedures be eliminated. Build trust and teams.
*  Revise the community participation approach to make it a useful instrument for linking civil society
organizations and govemment institutions. Define a clear role for these organizations.
*  Design clear criteria for identifying and contracting intermediate service suppliers, including NGOs.
Define a process for monitoring and evaluating their performance and a system of incentives and
penalties in the contracting system.
*  Prepare baseline information taking into consideration at least the following issues: (a) basic socio-
demographic indicators; (b) specific vulnerable groups by age and gender in the areas covered by
the project; (c) nutritional patterns; (d) habits, ideas and beliefs that are health risks; (e) key
elements in a campaign to modify cultural factors that are increasing health risks; (f) household
practices for pooling resources and other forms of private and informal arrangements (some of
which were used after the earthquakes); (g) elements that increase the impact of natural risks; and
(h) formal and informal health resources. The results should be used to strengthen health and social
risk management by: (i) matching instruments to risks; (ii) matching supply and demand; and (iii)
involving stakeholders in design and implementationi of health activities.
87



Table 1. Summary of the Services provided by NGOs
NGO             Household or                                Community
NGO___________ facilitator          Physician           Nurse                Health I:tcilitator
AD)HU'          Health care, medical  Supervision,       Supervision of health  Ilealth c. re,
AGAPE *         supplies             children and        status,              educatioi medical
AMS*                                 maternal care,      Children and        supplies
FUSAL* '                             education           maternal control,
OEF*. l                                                  education
CALMA*
ASAPROSAR*
MDS             Health care, medical  Supervision                            I Elealth care.
|SERAPHIM        supplies, family                                              educatior. medical
ASPS            planning                                                      supplies, family y
CIRES           __                                          I_ plannin.                      _
ADS            i Family planning     Supervision                              Family  anning
CONAMUS                              Does not have a program                 E amilv rF annilig
FUMA            Does not have a program
ORMt SA
FUNDESO         Services provided to a Municipal clinic (health care)
SSL            Does not provide direct services
> Teams include experts on children and maternal control. nutrition, social workers. educaturs on I ealth and
psychologists among others.
Provide and deliver food.
88



Annex 2d - Part 1: Assessment of Hospital Medical Waste Management
and Disposal Practices
Detailed Results of Survey Conducted during Project Preparation
Background
The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) formulated a project for all the capital cities of the six
Central American countries in 1990 that was adopted by the European Union in 1991 and ratified by
Central American governments between 1993 and 1994. The Program was known as ALA 91/33 and its
objective was to install a hospital waste collection and treatment system in the six capital cities. The
ALA 91/33 Program marked the beginning of an awareness and training process. Today there are medical
units with professional skills to deal with the issue of toxic medical waste. Hospitals in the Metropolitan
Area of San Salvador (AMSS) have equipment, trained people and a budget to pay for external service.
Hospitals with an adequately installed system in the AMSS handle over 80 percent of hospital waste in
the AMSS.
Guided by the ALA 91/33 Program, the Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MOH) installed a three
phase system for the collection and final disposal of infectious biological waste beginning October 1,
1997, in the eight hospitals run by MOH, plus the Military Hospital and the ANTEL Hospital (now ISSS)
located in the AMSS.
The first phase of the hospital waste management system operated from October 1, 1997 to May 31,
1999, under the concept of a safe separation and packaging system which ensures that, once generated,
waste does not again come into contact with anyone, and utilizes selective transportation with daily
collection, carrying waste to the AMSS controlled landfill, where it is buried in a ditch, a method known
as co-disposal. The San Salvador City Hall, which administered the Apopa controlled dump, used
machinery to excavate a ditch far away from trash scavengers, and then re-covers it with dirt three times a
week.
The second phase took place from June to December of 1999, when, with the opening of the AMSS
Sanitary Landfill, it was agreed that this landfill will be equipped with a safety cell. This landfill is
operated by the Canadian-French consortium CINTEC - TREDI, as a joint venture with 10 municipalities
of the AMSS (14 municipalities comprise the AMSS), called MIDES S.E.M de C.V., which proposed
closing the ditch and switching to a treatment system. This situation obliged the Ministry of Health to
seek the best treatment alternative, and a Colloquium was held to discuss alternatives. Beginning January
1, 2000, MIDES introduced a treatment system using thermal disinfecting (autoclave), which is the start
of the third phase of the development of the Infectious Biological Waste Management System.
In the AMSS, there are currently four transportation entities, a public one administered by the MOH and
three private ones which provide service to 6 ISSS hospitals and to most private hospitals as well as to
several clinical laboratories. MOH transportation serves its 8 hospitals, plus the Military Hospital and the
Red Cross medical assistance unit. The transportation units meet basic requirements such as exclusive
use, identification and closed compartments (similar to a boxcar), they are authorized by the Ministry of
Environment and the Ministry of Health, the system is complete, waste receives treatment by thermal
disinfecting (autoclave) and final disposal in the sanitary landfill which serves the 10 municipalities of the
AMSS.
89



Survey of Toxic Medical Waste Management in El Salvador
This reports describes the results of a survey to obtain primary source data and to understand the current
management of infectious biological waste in the country. The universe of the survey consisted of health
facilities administered by MOH. The nine hospitals surveyed represent 30 percent of the total number
managed by MOH. Nine ambulatory health units were surveyed, including one administered by an NGO,
as well as the Central Health Laboratory for a total sample of 19 health facilities.
The study included some of hospitals that are part of the proposed project. The two hospitals surveyed in
the AMSS represent 25 percent of the hospitals managed by MOH in the AMSS. In the interior, three
hospitals were surveyed in the Central and Para-Central Regions and two in the eastern part c-f the
country. To have a broader national view, two were also selected in the western part of the country.
These seven hospitals represent about 32 percent of the 22 in the country's interior.
1. Hospital solid waste management in the AMSS
The following description of how waste is currently managed in the AMSS health care facilities is based
on survey results, field visits and information provided by the MOH Environmental Health Office.
Separation: Waste is separated in three categories: (i) all materials that have been in contact with
patients known to be infected; (ii) organic tissue from surgery and childbirth; and (iii) sharp and pointed
objects such as needles, scalpels, razor blades and broken glass.
Packaging and accumulation: Red plastic bags are used for the first two categories. For sharp and
pointed objects, plastic containers with lids, or cardboard boxes are used and then sealed and placed in a
stackable, standardized red plastic receptacle with a lid; this reusable receptacle is used to remove waste
from each department for treatment. In the outpatient departments, trash is stored in small plastic
containers, with their respective red bag, located in each clinic as well as in hospital areas. In the delivery
and operating rooms, waste is stored in round-conical stainless steel containers with their respective red
bags, which are used only in the delivery and operating room, while in the labor room and nursing station
there are plastic containers with their respective red bag. In the kitchen area, containers for trash storage
are plastic or metal, holding 100 to 200 liters.
Internal collection: Collection in outpatient clinics is done two to three times a day; trash is ,zollected
from containers in a red plastic bag, likewise in other areas (emergency, laboratories, X-ray, pharmacy,
female wards, pediatrics, male wards, private rooms, sterilization center and others). In operating and
delivery rooms, placentas and organic tissue are separated from the rest of the waste and here the
frequency of collection will depend on the frequency of births and of the number of surgeries performed.
Internal transportation: This function is performed by the general services worker in each area. The
red bag is removed and deposited in the container and then transported manually or in a cart depending on
the size of the facility.
Central storage: Hospitals have a restricted area where containers are stored in a roofed area until they
are collected. Because of small quantities this is no the case in health centers.
External transportation: There are four transportation modes. Public hospitals have MOH delivery
trucks. The larger health units pay a private firm for this service as do ISSS and private hospitals. It is
estimated that 26 of the 33 hospitals registered in the AMSS, plus 30 units such as clinical laboratories
and outpatient centers are part of the selective collection and treatment system. Together they account for
over 85 percent of the infectious biological waste generated in the AMSS.
90



Treatment: The only treatment system in operation is the autoclave installed by MIDES, although there
are 4 incinerators in good working order, two in the Bloom and Zacamil Hospitals, another one in the
Military Hospital and the fourth one in the ISSS Specialized Hospital. However, they stopped operating
due to complaints from neighbors. The Hazardous Waste Regulation of the Environmental Law currently
prohibits the operation of incinerators in urban areas.
Final disposal: Hospital waste treated in the autoclave is deposited in the sanitary landfill. The waste
that is still not separated is being handled as common waste and is deposited in the same landfill since the
10 largest municipalities of the AMSS handle all their waste in the sanitary landfill.
Table I presents the health care facilities that generate infectious biological waste using the number of
beds as an indicator of waste generation. In the case of health units, 200 daily consultations are estimated
to be the equivalent of 20 beds, i.e., 10 consultations are the equivalent of one hospital bed.
Table I - Hos itals and Health Centers in the AMSS and Number of Beds
Public                   N of    Private                         N of   ISSS                      N of
I___ ____ ____ ____ ___beds                                       beds
Rosales Hospital         554      Pro-Family Hospital             78      Medical-Surgical H.       340
Maternity Hospital       401      Diagnostic Hospital             62      Specialized Hospital      320
Psychiatric Hospital     376      Divine Providence Hospital      60       I de Mayo Hospital       248
Pulmonary Hospital       304      Baptist Hospital                55      Psychiatric Hospital      135
Military Hospital        302      Gynecological Hospital          55      Pulmonary Hospital        98
Bloom Hospital           324      Baldwin Hospital                50      Roma Hospital             85
San Rafael Hospital      230      Women's Hospital                50      Oncology Hospital         60
Zacamil Hospital         255      Metropolitan Hospital           30      8 ISSS Clinics            160
Psychiatric H. Annex     66       Central Hospital                30
San Bartolo Hospital     65       Pediatric Center Hospital       30
22 health units          440      Salvadoran Hospital             20
Emergency Center Hospital       16
Climosal Hospital              15
Eye, Ear and Nose Hospital      14
Farea Gynecological H.           10
Mater Clinic Hospital           10
Flor Blanca Hospital            10
Eye Institute Hospital         10
International Eye Hospital     2
Subtotal beds            3,317                                    607                               1,446
Total beds               5,370
Source: Environmental Health Office, MOH.
2. Hospital solid waste management in the country's interior
This section describes waste management practices in 12 of the 14 Departments. Two of the 14
Departments are La Libertad and San Salvador that are part of the AMSS. Hospitals are located in the 12
departmental capitals and in the 10 largest cities. None of these cities has a plan for the management of
hazardous hospital waste. Hospitals have implemented some measures to improve intemal management
as described below.
Separation: All health facilities separate waste, but not in a reliable manner, and the waste that receives
greater attention includes sharp and pointed objects and organic tissue from surgery and delivery.
Packaging: Plastic bags, in some cases red, are used for packaging, and lidded plastic containers or
cardboard boxes are used for sharp and pointed objects and then sealed. In outpatient areas, trash is
91



stored in small plastic containers located in hallways. In delivery and operating rooms, storag.e is done in
round-conical stainless steel containers which are only used in deliverv and operating rooms. while in
labor rooms and nursing stations there are plastic containers. tn the kitchen area, containers lo store trash
are plastic or metal, holding 100 to 200 liters.
Internal collection: Trash collection in outpatient clinics is done at the end of the consultation, when
trash is collected from containers in plastic bags. This is done once a day. while in other areas
(emergency, laboratories, X-ray, pharmacy, female and male wards, pediatrics, private rooms,
sterilization center and others) it is done twice a day. In operating and delivery rooms, placen-tas and
organic tissue are separated from the rest of the trash and here the frequency of collection will depend on
the volume of childbirths and the number of surgeries performed.
Internal transportation: This function is performed by the general services worker in each area. Trash
is collected and deposited in a plastic bag and transported manually to the container. Collected placentas
are transported in containers where they are stored and carried manually to a cesspool on hospital grounds
used specifically for this purpose. Hospitals have a four-wheel cart to transport such waste.
Central storage: In the best of cases, trash is finally stored in a fenced place with no roof, and most trash
is disposed of in barrels together with common waste.
External Transportation: In most cases waste is collected three times a week by the municipal
sanitation truck. Trucks enter hospital grounds and remove all waste. These are open trucks and collect
household waste on their route.
Treatment: There are no treatment systems and when incinerators are available they are not always in
use due to maintenance problems. None of them have gas treatment systems. Some health care centers
have cesspools to deposit organic tissue and sharp/pointed objects. Materials that have been in contact
with patients are burned out in the open.
Final disposal: In the case of municipal collection, waste is deposited in the open dump managed by the
municipality. There is no contingency plan if the trash truck fails to collect. Centers that have an
incinerator bury their ashes on hospital grounds.
2. Cost of Toxic Medical Waste Management
This Section deals with financial aspects, specifically the actual cost for service and medical centers'
willingness to pay.
Metropolitan Area of San Salvador (AMSS): Costs were collected up to June 2001. Cost is US$0.32 per
kilogram treated by autoclave and disposed of in the sanitary landfill (inicluding taxes). When the service
consists of collection and final disposal at the sanitary landfill then cost was $20.00 per ton.
As of January 1, 2000 the service includes thermal disinfecting of infectious biological waste at the site of
the MIDES sanitary landfill increasing the cost of treatment and final disposal to $226.00 pet ton
(including 13 percent tax). Beginning January 1, 2001 it increased to $320 per ton and a decJsion has
been made that it will increase each year until reaching $500 per ton. T-o this must be added the cost of
transportation. The cost of collection and transportation in the case of MOII hospitals located in the
AMSS is absorbed by the central level of MOH because the transportation units and staff belong to this
institution. In the case of private and Social Security hospitals, the cost is between US$0.40 And UJS$0.60
per kilogram, resulting in a cost of $720 to $920 per ton collected. treated and disposed of in the sanitary
landfill.
92



Outside the AMSS: No cost data are available for collecting and treating infectious biological waste.
Hospital with incinerators could calculate the cost of fuel and equipment maintenance.
3. Willingness to Coeperate
The survey asked respondents about the willingness of the medical facilities to collaborate in solving the
problem of hospital and common waste management. The results are very positive with 94.7 percent
stating their willingness to cooperate for proper medical waste management. As to what form cooperation
could take, 84.2 percent recommended awareness programs, 78.9 percent information programs, 36.8
percent programs to reduce waste generation, and 84.2 percent treatment of infectious biological and
other hazardous waste. When asked if medical institutions should cooperate with the country and the local
government in waste management. 100 percent answered "yes."
Respondents are now aware of the cost of waste management with 36.8 percent thinking that costs have
increased very much and 31.6 percent consider it a normal increase. This is understandable, as until two
years ago, no one knew the cost of waste management. Measuring the importance attached to proper
management of toxic medical waste, 47.4 percent of the respondents stated that waste management should
be given greater priority; 42.1 percent call for normal priority; and the remaining 10.5 percent give it a
low priority. When asked what kind of assistance is needed most, 89.5 percent stated the need for
financial and technical support.
4. Estimates of Generation of Toxic Medical Waste in El Salvador
Prior to this survey, four attempts have been made to calculate the rate of hospital waste generation. The
results are expressed in kg/bed/day, which is the internationally adopted unit of measurement and
comparison.
* Rosales Hospital /pilot project         0.29 kg/bed/day       12/1996
*  10 de Mayo Hospital /pilot project     0.58 kg/bed/day       12/1996
* Study of 10 Hospitals                   0.34 kg/bed/day      03/1997
* The Japanese cooperation agency carried out the "Study of Regional Management of Solid Waste for
the Metropolitan Area of San Salvador," with results shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Results of Study of Hospital Waste Generation 1999-2000 (kg/bed/day)
Category     Hospital             MOH                   JICA Study
I            > 200 beds           0.652                 0.553
11           50 - 200 beds        0.699                 0.675
III          < 50 beds            0.465                 0.329
Source: Kokusai Kogyo Co., Ltd., JICA.
For this study records of the MOH Environmental Health Office were examined for the first seven months
of 2001. Data are taken from the daily records of the truck drivers collecting medical waste from eleven
health facilities and are confirmed by the daily weight receipts issued by MIDES. Table 3 shows the
volume of medical waste generated in these eleven facilities.
93



Table 3. Waste production expressed as kg/ bed/day in 11 MOH Health Facilities
(7 months 2001).
Monthly average  Number of    Production
Health care facility  Daily average (kg)      (kg)           beds        kg/led/day
I_-Maternity Hospital                 178.85             5,366          414            ).43    1
2 _    Rosales Hospital                229.68            6,890           554           ).41
3      San Rafael Hospital             227.54             6,826          230           ).99
4_ Bloom Hospital                     192.77             5,783          291            ).66
5      Zacamil Hospital                218.26            6,548           255           ).86
Psychiatric Hospital                62.86             1,886          426            ).15
7      San Bartolo Hospital            63.74              1,912          65            ).98
8     Military Hospital                55.08             1 653          302            ).18
_     Pulmonary Hospital               72.73             2 182          304            ).24
to     Red Cross                       15.70              471
I      M. Bloch Laboratory              795               239
Total___________________   ___________1,325.16  39,754.90        2841          0.46
Interhospital comparisons show large variations due to the general or specialized nature of the facility .
For example, the production at the Psychiatric and Pulmonary Hospitals is small, and bed oc:cupancy at
the Military Hospital is only about 40 percent. These hospitals depress the weighted average value of
0.46 kg/bed/day. Removing these hospitals from the calculation, the weighted average valut is 0.61
kg/bed/day.
Reviewing the methodologies of the four earlier studies it is noted that the values of the pilot project at
the 1 de Mayo Hospital are considered more valid because it had greater participation by all medical
services. Data from the system installed in October 1997 in 10 hospitals are less reliable. WNe therefore
conclude that the rate of 0.65 kg/bed/day of hazardous hospital waste is more conservative and closer to
reality. This is the value used in a recent study carried in El Salvador by the IDB, in the formulation of
the Program for Decontamination of Critical Areas, in the Sectoral Analysis of Solid Waste carried out by
PAHO/WHO and is very close to the value found by the JICA study.
Using the 0.65 kg/bed/day rate we can now project in Tables 4 and 5 the volume of miiedical waste
produced in the health facilities in the AMSS and in the non-AMSS area.
Table 4: Production of Medical Waste in AMSS Health Facilities
Hospitals No. Beds    Daily Production (ton)      Annual Production (ton)
Public    3,317      2.16                         786.96
Private   607        0.39                         144.01
ISSS     1,446       0.94                         343.06
Total    5,370       3.49                         1,274.03
The production factor of the AMSS hospitals is applied to non-AMSS hospitals to calculate ihe amount of
hazardous hospital waste produced per day in each city (Table 5). Based on survey results, these values
will represent over 90 percent of each city's real waste generation, since doctor clinics, clinical
94



laboratories and veterinary clinics represent less than 10 percent of the waste generated. The total amount
of infectious biological waste generated in the country is estimated at 5.8 tons per day or about 2,117
tons/year.
Table 5: Production of Medical Waste in non-AMSS Hospitals
NO    Cities                 No. Beds    Daily Production (ton)    Annual Production (ton)
I      Santa Ana               752               0.489                    178.412
2      Chalchuapa               79               0.051                     18.743
3      Metapan                  43               0.028                    10.202
4      Sonsonate               287               0.187                    68.091
5      Ahuachapan               188              0.122                    44.603
6      Chalatenango             120              0.078                    28.470
7      Nueva Concepci6n         48               0.031                     11.388
8      San Vicente              179              0.116                    42.468
9      Cojutepeque              105              0.068                    24.911
10     Suchitoto                28               0.018                     6.643
11    Zacatecoluca             183               0.119                    43.417
12     Sensuntepegue            62               0.040                    14.710
13    Ilobasco                  59               0.038                    13.998
14    Usulutan                 208               0.135                    49.348
15     Santiago de Maria        44               0.029                    10.439
16    Jiquilisco                50               0.033                    11.863
17     San Miguel              772               0.502                    183.157
18    Nueva Guadalupe           60               0.039                    14.235
19    Ciudad Barrios            45               0.029                    10.676
20     San Francisco Gotera     73               0.047                     17.319
21     LaUni6n                  113              0.073                    26.809
22     Santa Rosa de Lima       57               0.037                     13.523
_ Total                3,555               2.31                    843.42
Recommendations:
The action plan for implementing a national program for managing hospital medical waste and disposal
(copy in project files) proposes a short-term, medium-term and long-term strategy. The short-term
strategy (one to three years) will consolidate the waste management program already in place in the
AMSS, complete the existing legal and regulatory framework with the appropriate regulations and
implementation guidelines, and regulate the private sector companies that manage toxic hospital waste as
well as introducing a greater degree of competition. The medium-term strategy (three to five years) will
install proper medical waste management systems in the two hospitals to be rehabilitated and the five
hospitals to be replaced under Component I of this project. Technical assistance will also be provided to
the environmental health unit (GAISA) of MOH to assist hospitals that are not directly benefiting from
investments under this project in installing adequate waste management systems. The long-term strategy
will aim to put in place a toxic medical waste management system for the whole country.
95



Annex 2d: Part 2
Environmental Assessment of Reconstruction Process
and Environmental Action Plan
The environmental assessment consisted of:
a) visits to four sites proposed by MOH for relocation of hospitals, with the objective of determining
whether the proposed sites offer acceptable environmental conditions for the proper operation of these
facilities, as well as to identify the need for and scope of the resettlement/relocation of those affected;
b) review of applicable environmental legislation in the country, including environmental eategorization
and licensing;
c) identification of significant environmental impacts that could affect the design and operation of
centers;
d) identification of actions needed to mitigate such impacts through an Environmental Action Plan and a
Frame of Reference for Population Resettlement, if necessary; and
e) discussion of actions identified with the MOH counterpart team.
The Environmental Action Plan resulting from the survey seeks to address the following objectives: (i)
strengthen MOH capacity to carry out environmental assessments of existing sites as well as identify,
select and assess new sites for hospitals to be reconstructed; (ii) support coordination between MOH and
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARN); (iii) build MOH capacity to dlesign,
monitor construction, operate and maintain hospitals, including environmental and environmental
engineering aspects related to hospital waste management; and (iv) incorporate the participation of
beneficiaries and municipal governments in the project cycle through community consultations regarding
the design and location of reconstructed hospital centers and, if necessary, in the resettlement of persons
affected by the construction and operation of these new centers.
The Environmental Action Plan discussed with the Project's counterpart team includes: (i) environmental
guidelines for the identification and selection of new sites and for the preparation of terms of reference for
the environmental impact assessments of hospital constructions; (ii) guidelines for the preparation of
resettlement plans for each hospital; (iii) environmental specifications for construction, to be incorporated
in bidding documents for civil works; and (iv) action plan for the management of solid hospital waste in
each hospital (See annex 2d: Part 1).
GOES has developed guidelines for resettlement that are less strict that those adopted by the Bank.
Rowever, should the need arise to resettle households or commercial entities, GOES has agreed to
prepare a Resettlement Plan according to the Bank Resettlement Policy. The Bank team committed itself
to assist the Borrower in the preparation of this plan. The Borrower has agreed to follow Bank
environmental and resettlement policies as per Bank Operational Policies 4.01 and 4.12 whenever policies
are applicable.
MOH, with the support of the Implementation Executing Unit (IEU), shall be responsible for the
execution of the Environmental Action Plan and for each Resettlement Plan identified at project outset.
For this purpose, monitoring and evaluation indicators identified as part of the Environmental Action Plan
will enable the proper monitoring of actions and expected outcomes related to project objectives. The
completion of the activities defined in the Environmental and Resettlement plans are conditions of
96



disbursements for each hospital.
Commitments agreed during the appraisal mission and confirmed during negotiations.
The Environmental Action Plan together with the framework for dealing with potential resettlement
issues was discussed with the counterpart teams within MOH, Secretariat of the Presidency and Ministry
of Finance. While there is no legislation applicable to resettlement, the government has developed norms
and guidelines for the management of resettlement which have been implemented to relocate families
affected by the earthquakes. GOES presented the guidelines to the Bank for its review, and noted that the
sites selected are public property and that they do not contain any settlements. The Bank noted that the
guidelines are less strict that those adopted by the Bank and that, should the need arise to resettle
households or commercial entities, the Borrower will prepare, if needed, a Resettlement Plan according to
the Bank Resettlement Policy the Bank team committed itself to work with the Borrower on this Plan.
The Borrower has agreed to follow Bank environmental and resettlement policies as per Bank Operational
Policies 4.01 and 4.12 whenever policies are applicable. It was agreed that an Environmental Impact
Assessment, including a resettlement action plan, if necessary, would be a condition of disbursement for
each hospital. The Salvadoran delegation confirmed the existence of national environmental legislation
applicable to health facilities and have presented the law for review by the Bank during negotiations. All
MOH hospitals have been licensed as of May 2001 and licenses are in the process of being extended.
Assessment of sites under consideration for Hospitals to be financed through the Project.
As part of the Project's environmental assessment, the preparation team visited three of the seven
facilities that are the object of financing under the Emergency Reconstruction of the Public Hospital
Network Component. The objectives of the field visit were to: (i) evaluate the sites initially proposed by
MOH for the location of the hospital facilities to be reconstructed; (ii) assess the possibility of
resettlement of families affected by the relocation of these facilities; (iii) identify significant
environmental impacts to be expected as a result of the construction and/or identify ex ante their
environmental impact assessment needs; (iv) assess technical assistance requirements related to
environmental issues, including training needs of hospital staff related to their operation; and (v)
evaluation of MOH capacity to identify and assess new sites and coordinate with MARN for securing an
environmental license for each facility, in accordance with the country's current legislation.
The field evaluation focused on four sites proposed by GOES for relocation. The sites initially identified
meet the minimum requirements needed to relocate the evaluated centers. However, environmental
impact assessments are needed; these will indicate the mitigation measures that should be incorporated in
each hospital's final design.
Regarding the environmental legislation in effect in El Salvador, each of the constructions to be financed
with project financing should secure and environmental license prior to commencing construction.
Likewise, three of the four sites inspected will require the preparation of a Resettlement Plan based on the
guidelines presented in the Frame of Reference (see annex 2d part 2). The following tables identify in
greater detail thc environmental problems identified in each of the inspected sites.
Quick Environmental Assessment of Proposed Sites
Reconstruction of National Maternity Hospital, San Salvador.
Baseline information: This is a reference hospital specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, and is located
in one of the most congested areas of San Salvador. Complex built in 1954, with expansions in 1960 and
97



1982. Capacity for 404 beds, including 60 beds for newborns. Usage rate at 100 percent, with no margin
for usage in peak cases, and an average stay of at least three days per patient. Eight delivery rooms, 10
operating rooms, scanning, and additional support services such as blood bank, clinical and pathology
laboratories, ultrasound and pharmacy. Damage caused by earthquakes considered between moderate and
severe. Recommended actions include Replacement and Relocation.
Assessment of site proposed by MOH for relocation of Hospital:
* Proposed site in an estimated area of 16.9 blocks (approx. 12.0 Ha), apparently owned by the
Ministry of Public Works and Housing.
* Preliminary proposal includes the relocation of Rosales Hospital and MOH offices.
* Significant urban settlements, with access to public water supply, sanitary sewer, lighting and
telephone services (this will indicate that these are legal or legalized settlements since they have this
type of services).
* Soil use including coffee plantations and semi-pristine, humid tropical forest.
* Adjacent to private farms and military school, with access to boulevards through narrow streets that
will need to be modified.
*  Infrastructure initially proposed will significantly affect soil use, bodies of water, forest, wildlife and
property value of the area of influence.
Recommendations: It will be necessary to:
*  incorporate access, residual and rain water.
* define a Resettlement Plan.
*  prepare an Environmental Impact Study, considering the proposed infrastructure as a whole (HMN,
MOH, and Rosales).
* obtain an environmental license.
Reconstruction of Cojutepeque Hospital, Department of Cuscatlan.
Baseline information: Hospital center measuring 3,400 square meters, population coverage estimated at
240,000 inhabitants; comprised of two buildings, one having a single story and the other havirg two.
Second-level hospital, with delivery rooms, two operating rooms, and ten consulting rooms. Since the
February earthquake only 50 percent of the services offered are functioning (however, it is operating with
very low quality standards for hospital services due to its overcrowded infrastructure). One of the
hospital's wings, built in 1827, was damaged during the earthquake due to its adobe construction.
According to hospital technicians, the deficit in the cost of operation and maintenance in relation to the
transfer obtained from MOH is 40 percent.
Assessment of site proposed bv MOH for relocation of Hospital
* Proposed site with estimated area of 7 hectares, apparently owned by the Ministry of Defense or the
Ministry of Finance (?).
* Site suitable for relocation of hospital center. Proposal includes leaving existing installations for
prevention work and new center for treatment activities.
*  Site with access to public water supply, lighting and telephone services. However, it will be
necessary to build rainwater and wastewater collectors, prior to treatment.
*  Site used by army for training exercises and military instruction.
*  Adjacent to private farms and military school, with access to boulevards by means of narrow streets
that will need to be modified.
* The infrastructure initially proposed will significantly affect soil use, bodies of water, forest, wildlife
and the property value of the area of influence.
98



Recommendations: It will be necessary to:
* incorporate accesses, wastewater and rainwater collectors.
* evaluate the need to prepare a Resettlement Plan for market vendors who are temporarily located on
the southern access to the grounds.
* prepare an Environmental Impact Study.
* obtain environmental license.
Reconstruction of Santa Gertrudis Hospital, San Vicente
Baseline information: Hospital center occupying 50 percent of a 67,000 square meter lot owned by the
Hospital. Population coverage estimated at 165,000 inhabitants; second-level hospital, with four general
and ten special clinics, one delivery room, five operating rooms, and respective equipment. According to
local technicians, the second earthquake damaged the administrative areas, with these being declared as
"red flag" areas. The damaged areas are over forty years old. Structural damages, although severe,
apparently have not affected the center's principal structures. According to hospital technicians, the
deficit between the demand for operation and maintenance and the amount of the transfer received by
MOH is 80 percent.
Assessment of site proposed by MOH for relocation of Hospital
* Relocation/repair will be done on existing site.
* Site suitable for relocation of hospital center
* Site with access to with access to public water supply, lighting and telephone services. However, it
will be necessary to evaluate the capacity of rainwater and wastewater collectors in the context of the
new installations to be carried out.
* A school has been installed temporarily on hospital grounds, which must be relocated as part of the
hospital construction's Resettlement Plan.
Recommendations: It will be necessary to:
* prepare an Environmental Impact Study.
* obtain environmental license.
Reconstruction of San Rafael Hospital, La Libertad
Baseline information: Hospital center located on a 20,000 square meter lot. Serves a population of
700,000 inhabitants. The five-story central tower was built in 1976. The rest of the buildings are over 60
years old (part of the buildings was initially constructed in 1860). Third-level hospital center with 4
general and 18 specialty clinics, four delivery rooms, clinical laboratories, ultrasound, blood bank,
therapy, pharmacy and four operating rooms. The February earthquake significantly damaged the central
tower. It is hoped that by December of this year at the latest, structural studies will define the feasibility
of rebuilding the central tower.
Assessment of site proposed by MOH for relocation of Hospital
* Relocation will be done on the existing site.
* Site suitable for relocation of hospital center.
* Site with access to public water supply, lighting and telephone services.
Recommendations: It will be necessary to:
* evaluate the capacity of rainwater and wastewater collectors in the context of the new installations to
be carried out.
* prepare an Environmental Impact Study and a Reconstruction Management Plan, as part of the
99



design. The Plan will make it possible to coordinate vehicular traffic and the generation and
management of construction waste during peak hours and with fewer problems for the nearby
population.
* obtain environmental license.
Environmental Action Plan
The Environmental Action Plan addresses four main objectives: (i) strengthen MOH capazity to carry
out environmental assessments of existing sites as well as identify, select and assess new sites for
hospitals to be reconstructed; (ii) support coordination between MOH and the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources (MARN); (iii) build MOH capacity to design, monitor construction, operate and
maintain hospitals, including environmental and environmental engineering aspects related to hospital
waste management; and (iv) incorporate the participation of beneficiaries and municipal governments in
the project cycle through community consultations regarding the design and location of recorintructed
hospital centers and, if necessary, in the resettlement of persons affected by the construction and
operation of these new centers.
The Environmental Action Plan discussed with the Project counterpart team includes:
a) development of terms of reference for the environmental impact evaluations of hospitals:
b) guidelines for the development of resettlement plans for each hospital;
c) environmental specifications for construction to be incorporated in the civil works biddiri g documents
to be acquired with financing from the Loan
d) action plan for the management of hospital solid wastes in each hospital.
MOH, with the support of the IEU will be responsible for the implementation of the Environrnental
Action Plan and each Resettlement Plan that is identified during the first stages of Project
implementation. The monitoring and evaluation indicators identified as part of the Environmental Action
Plan will allow for appropriate monitoring of the actions and expected products related to the project
objectives. The duration of the proposed Plan of Action will depend on the project duration, an estimated
time of three to four years. The estimated cost of the Action Plan is US$180 thousand in addition to the
cost of the individual environmental action plans that will be identified during the design phase. The
$180,000 are expected to cover the costs of environmental and social impact assessment and its
monitoring. The costs of the initial environmental assessment will be financed as part of the design stage
and the costs of implementing environmental mitigation measures addressing direct impacts wvill be part
of construction costs. The costs of implementing the Environmental and Social Plans will be financed
with counterpart funds. The following matrix shows the Environmental Action Plan agreed with all the
project counterparts.
100



Synthesis of Project Environmental Action Plan
Activity: Environmental Action Plan   Outcome Indicator    Means of        Implementation         Cost
Verification        Period         (US$x 1,000)
Component                Result                                             Begin      End       Unit   Total
Environmental      Designs are         Environmental        7 reports with   11/01     4/02      15.0   120.0
Review/Evaluation   environmentally    Impact Studies       no objection
of the hospital    acceptable to GOES   developed or        by the World
constructions (civil  and the World Bank  environmental     Bank
works and                              revisions of the
equipment for                          studies
waste management)
Development of     Hospital            Resettlement Plans    Reports (see   11/01      2/02      20.0   40.0
Resettlement Plan    construction to be    developed        Resettlement
for each hospital    financed follows                       Framework)
(Maternidad,       legal policy and
Gertrudis)         those affected are
found to be in
agreement with the
agreed resettlement
actions.
Obtain             Hospitals have the   Environmental       Environmental  11/01       11/02      0.0    0.0
Environmental      environmental       Licenses             Licenses
Licenses from      license for                              granted by
MARN               operation, in                            MARN.
accordance with the
environmental
legislation in force.
Environmentally    Hospital Centers     2Environmental      Environmental   4/02   Completion   Lump   20.0
acceptable civil   constructed include   Action Plans       Supervision               of each    sum
works              the environmental    completed in each   Reports from             hospital
considerations and    hospital.         each hospital.
specifications in the  Construction     Supervision      6/02   Completion
Mitigation Plans of   guidelines        reports                     of
each hospital.     incorporate          completed by            component
applicable          the World
environmental       Bank.
criteria (see annex
2d Part 2).
Total                                                                                                    180.0
'The cost of each Environmental Action Plan, including the cost of the Resettlement Plan will be identified during
the design phase of each hospital. The financing of each of these plans will be the responsibility of GOES, for
which MOH, through the Monitoring Unit, will present the financing plan and identification of necessary funds.
2 The Environmental Action Plan should include measures necessary for the management of solid wastes in
agreement with the Action Plan identified in the Project Appraisal Document (see PAD).
3 During the appraisal, it was agreed that the Monitoring Unit will have specialists assigned for the coordination of
activities related to the environmental supervision of the works and implementation of the Plan, as well as, it was
agreed that the engineering firm to be contracted for the supervision of the works, will include in their functions, the
environmental supervision of the works.
101



Guidelines for selection of sites for location of Hospital Centers and Preparation of Terms of
Reference for Project Environmental Assessments.
Framework of Reference. The Government of the Republic of El Salvador has received a .Loan from the
World Bank for the implementation of the Emergency Reconstruction and Extension of Health Services
Project. The Project seeks to improve the health conditions of the population, attending principally to the
population located in the areas affected by the earthquakes of January and February 2001. B1th
earthquakes caused considerable cumulative damage to 23 of the 30 public hospitals in the country. The
majority of structural failures were in buildings with more than 50 years of operation, including in
buildings constructed at the end of the XIX century, a time when seismic specifications did not exist in El
Salvador.
The Project includes a component for the reconstruction and/or repair of the damaged hospital
infrastructure in the Northern area of the country, affected by conditions of poverty and in the Central
area destroyed by the recent earthquakes. According to statistical information provided by NIOH.
together, the hospital network to be reconstructed with financing from the World Bank, prov ides attention
to at least 1.9 million people, an infrastructure estimated to be no less than 89 thousand square meters of
construction. This component will finance the re-location and equipping of five hospitals and the
rehabilitation/partial reconstruction of three hospital centers, at an estimated cost of US$157 million.
The Project has been classified as an Environmental Category B, based on the Operational Directives of
the World Bank since each one of the hospital centers to be financed will generate specific environmental
impacts and due to this, will require an environmental review of the design of each of the hospitals. The
environmental review of each hospital will include: (i) environmental review of the sites selected by
MOH for the re-location of the centers to determine if the proposed sites offer acceptable environmental
conditions for the adequate operation of the centers and identify the need and extent of
resettlement/relocation of those affected; (ii) evaluation of the designs (at level of draft) of tfhe hospital
infrastructure and proposed equipment for the management of hospital waste and the need/extent of the
civil works, equipment, and training for the adequate management of this type of waste; (iiiI identification
of the significant environmental impacts that will affect the design and operation of the centers; (iv)
definition of the necessary instruments for the environmental categorization and environmental licensing
in agreement with the environmental legislation in force in El Salvador; (v) identification of necessary
actions for the mitigation of these impacts through an Environmental Action Plan for each hospital and a
Framework for Population Resettlement, if necessary; and (vi) cost estimate and necessary specification
for the implementation of the identified plans.
Objective of the Environmental Review of each hospital. Through the environmental review of each
hospital, the Government of El Salvador seeks to ensure that the options selected for the
relocation/reconstruction of each hospital center, financed with funds from the Loan, are ens ironmentally
appropriate, with timely identification of any significant environmental and social problems, and the
alleviating or compensatory measures needed to mitigate the identified impacts.
Study Area. Insert a short description of the hospital center, location, services, advances, irfrastructure
proposed based on the studies currently in preparation
Advances of the Study. The study includes the following activities:
102



Description of proposed hospital construction'. Description of the specific scope of each hospital
construction, include maps or availability of maps, general disposition, capacities, areas, neighboring
areas, current status of the design and requirements for construction if there is available information,
those responsible for coordination and monitoring.
Environmental Description of the Location of Project. Description of the physical, biological, and
sociocultural environment of the study area. Compile, evaluate, and present baseline information on
pertinent and relevant features of each area.
Physical Environment: geology, topography, soils, climate, air quality (especially in urban sites),
superficial and subterranean hydrology, water catchment, existing public services related to waste
management.
Biological Environment: presence of fragile habitats, significant natural sites, vectors
Sociocultural Environment: population and social structure in the direct and indirect area of influence of
the project, use of soil, development activities in the context of the selected site (see guidelines of the
Resettlement Framework), existing goods and services.
Legislative Considerations and Applicable Norms. Define the pertinent regulations and norms related
to environmental legislation in El Salvador that regulate environmental quality, health and occupational
security, the protection of fragile areas (municipal ordinances including such as the case of the site
selected for the Maternity Hospital in San Salvador), and use of land.
Description of the potential environmental and social impacts of the proposed hospital construction.
Define the significant positive and negative, direct and indirect, immediate and long-term impacts
identified that are related to the proposed project. Identify the inevitable or irreversible impacts.
Describe, when possible, the impacts quantitatively, defining environmental costs and benefits, and the
degree to achieve the quality norms related to waste discharge of the Center and in the catchments, and
the anticipated benefits for cleanliness and public health in the area affected by the Center. Characterize
the quantity and quality of the available information, the significant deficiencies in the unproven or
uncertain information associated with the prediction of each impact.
Propose Design Alternatives. Describe the alternatives considered during the design, including location,
architectural and functional design, technologies for waste management of each center, techniques and
phases of construction in the context of location of the proposed center.
Incorporate in the process of selection of location alternatives, public consultation through focus groups
involving the organized civil society, beneficiaries, those immediately affected, and institutional staff
involved in the hospital construction.
Environmental Action Plan for Mitigation of Impacts. Develop an action plan for mitigation or
prevention of signification impacts identified to acceptable levels, calculate the cost of these measures
and the respective indicators of monitoring and impact. If the project will result in involuntary
resettlement, incorporate a resettlement plan (see guidelines in Framework). Incorporate an
implementation timetable and those responsible for each of the activities identified in the Plan.
Incorporate mechanisms and procedures for public consultation for monitoring of the plan.
I MOH, through the Project Monitoring Unit, will be responsible for topographic information on the selected sites
and the availability of the functional studies of each center.
103



Preparation of necessary documentation for requesting Environmental Permit. As part of the
evaluation process and preparation of reports, the consultant will provide technical assistance to the
Monitoring Unit during the Implementation of the Project (USI) on the development of instruments,
requests, and necessary reports to obtain the respective environmental permit.
Reports. A draft report, a final report. The contents of the report will include: executive summary, legal
framework, description of proposed project, environmental description of site, identified impacts,
alternatives considered, Environmental Management Plan, Monitoring Plan, References, and Appendices.
Coordination and Monitoring. Insert who will be responsible for the coordination and monitoring for
MOH and MARN.
Team of Consultants/Level of Effort (considering each hospital)
Aspects to consider            Specialist                       Consultant Level of Effort
(weeks)
Social                         Sociologist                                 3
Urban Planner                               2
Economist                                   2
Natural Resources              Civil or Chemical Engineer                  2
Geologist                                   2
Duration of Study
Define, according to each construction, an estimate of three months.
104



Draft Frame of Reference for the preparation of Resettlement Plans in sites selected for
Construction of Hospital Centers
Introduction. The objective of the proposed Frame of Reference is to define the guidelines,
methodologies and general procedures related to the legal clearance of sites selected for the location of
hospital centers to be reconstructed with project financing, as well as to appropriately handle the
resettlement of persons and economic activities caused by project activities.
According to the results of the field visit to sites initially identified for the relocation of hospital centers,
the appraisal mission detected that the ownership of sites initially identified depends on different
government agencies. According to the authorities of other centers visited, in some cases the sites
selected belong to MOH or the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing, or the Ministry of Defense. From the above, the review of guidelines and procedures outlined in
this document shall be part of the activities of the IEU which should coordinate with the MOH Legal
Department and the Legal Department of each government unit involved regarding the procedures
outlined in this Frame of Reference. Each project in which the need for population resettlement is
identified should have its own Resettlement and Social Management Plans. The IEU shall be responsible
for preparing each of these plans and sending them to the World Bank's Project Officer for review and
no-objection, as part of the disbursement requirements.
Likewise, for monitoring and evaluation purposes, MOH, with the IEU's support, shall submit a monthly
report to the World Bank, from the date of the start-up of the execution of the Resettlement Plan for each
hospital center that so requires, in which progress made should be recorded with regard to the proposed
plan and its execution timetable. Furthermore, it shall submit a final report with a family by family
comparison of the data contained in the social-site data sheets contained in this report and the final data,
resulting from the resettlement process, together with photographic records, and shall notify the Bank
each time there is a need to purchase new sites, in each case attaching the corresponding purchase or
resettlement plan.
Guidelines for preparation of resettlement and social management plans. Each Resettlement Plan
should include the following sections: (i) socioeconomic diagnostic of those affected; (ii) topographic
definition of area affected; (iii) the applicable Legal Framework which justifies specific actions to be
taken in each site; (iv) procedures to be used to purchase the affected site(s) in each project, the
acquisition of improvements, and forced expropriation; and (v) the Social Management Plan (including
the organizational structure for the execution of the plan and budget) and measures to prevent new
settlements.
Objectives:
*  To identify those sites that will be affected by the acquisition of areas required by the project, their
location, to what degree they are affected, possible use of remaining areas and tenure.
*  To determine the socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of the owners and holders of the affected
sites, their places of residence, their sources of income and means of subsistence, and the degree of
dependence of the site affected, and to analyze impacts due to the loss of the affected area.
*  To identify and evaluate the social, economic and cultural impacts that owners, holders and/or
residents of affected sites will face.
*  To describe existing procedures for the negotiation and acquisition of required areas.
105



* To formulate a social management plan for the resettlement of the population that must be displaced
and for the socioeconomic re-establishment of the entire affected population.
Methodology
Preliminary evaluation of site. The IEU technician, the MOH legal-technical representative, the
technical representative of the local government (as the case may be), and the legal technical
representative of the owner entity(ies), shall travel to the selected site to observe the degree to which sites
and homes are affected. During this trip designs will be reviewed (at least for the first draft) n order to
analyze the relevance of how sites are affected, taking into consideration the stages and implications
during the construction and operation of the hospital center under evaluation.
Based on this trip, the necessary recommendations and guidelines will be prepared and serve as terms of
reference for the preparation of the Site Resettlement Plan, including, if necessary, the review of
architectural and engineering designs.
Determination of degree to which people will be affected and their vulnerability. The technical staff
responsible for preparing the Resettlement Plan should determine the degree to which people will be
affected and their vulnerability, taking into account possible alternatives regarding the draft project's
scale:
- To determine the degree to which people will be affected, technical staff shall identify the effects of
works on the following elements: land, dwelling, business, access to public services such as
electricity, telephones, drinking water supply, sewers, education, health, recreation, transp.ortation,
green areas, and effects on family income.
* Lot: The lot may be totally, partially, temporarily or definitively affected. In cases where it is only
partially affected, one should consider the possibility of using the remaining area to deternine the
degree to which it is affected.
* Dwelling: This may be totally, partially, temporarily or definitely affected. The latter may imply
moving the family group to a different community, in the same community or on the same lot.
* Businesses: A business may be totally or partially, temporarily or definitively affected. The latter
may imply moving to a different community, in the same community or on the same lot.
* Access to services: Access to one or several services may be temporarily or definitively affected, and
the possibility of using the lot, dwelling or business may be totally or partially affected.
* Family income: Family income may be totally, partially, temporarily or definitively affecLed.
* Vulnerability: To identify the vulnerability of those affected, indicators will be used, measured by
means of localized surveys to define the degree of vulnerability in an indirect manner. These
indicators may be age, gender, physical capacity (non-existence of handicaps), economic capacity,
length of occupation on the site without changes, length of time carrying out the same activity,
studies, knowledge of other activities different from current one. Based on these indicators, three
degrees of vulnerability may be determined: high, medium and low.
Once the lots and dwellings affected by construction, road access and the operation of the hospital center
are identified, a survey will be designed to collect data on lots affected and to obtain a characterization of
106



the population to be displaced. After data is collected, the results will be analyzed to identify the impacts
caused by displacement in each case and thus determine resettlement solutions.
To determine resettlement solutions, technical staff shall design an appraisal methodology based on
procedures existing in the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, municipalities, their property records,
as well as other entities in El Salvador's construction field, to make it possible to define the values of
construction, improvements and lands, and prepare acquisition budgets.
Topographic scaling. In parallel, technical staff shall proceed to prepare the topographic survey of
affected areas and the design of how these will look at the end of project construction. The designs
should be in accordance with the specifications identified in the draft project (road access, connections to
public services, green areas, etc.); identifying in each plan the affected areas and lots. Topographic plans
should be made at a scale of 1:500 or the appropriate scale for urban surveys.
Applicable Legal Framework. For each hospital, the technical staff responsible for documenting
presidential or ministerial laws, regulations, ordinances and/or agreements applicable to procedures for
the legal clearance of each site, or the proposed presidential or ministerial ordinances and/or agreements,
as the case may be, in accordance with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, whose objective is
the improvement or at least the establishment of the affected population's socioeconomic conditions.
107



Final identification of persons affected and alternative solutions to be taken. From the outcome of
the determination of the affected population, the degree to which they are affected and the topographic
scale, the technical staff shall submit results to the IEU for approval. The actions to be taken regarding
lots may be acquisition of sites, acquisition of improvements or forced expropriation. Table I below
presents a tentative format for presentation.
Table 1. Results resentation model
Person affected    P                                         Type of
What is affected    (list each person    Quantity      Alternative solutions      proposed
affected)      (example)                                acquisition*
Partial lot             name             I             .  Appraisal           for AT
replacement            _
Partial dwelling        name             1             *  Appraisal for
replacement
*  Counseling for
remodeling of dwelling.
*  Social consultation and
follow-up              _
Total dwelling          name             1             *  Appraisal for
replacement
.  Counseling for new
housing construction
.  Counseling for lot
acquisition and housing
construction, in the case
of displacement outside
the site.
.  Social consultation and
follow-up
Dwelling-business       name             I
Partial business        name             I
Other construction      name             1
(recent illegal occupation,
empty dwellings)                                                                  _-
School                  name             1              .  Relocation
Compensation measures
Market                  name             100            .  Relocation
*  Compensation measures
Municipal Green Area    Square meter                    .  Compensation measures
*AT: acquisition of land; AM: acquisition of improvements
Description of alternative solutions
Appraisal for replacement. Definition of the value at which a similar property could be purchased, in
another site, with the same conditions as that which one wishes to appraise. In addition to the value of the
lot, constructions and improvements, under these similar conditions one must take into account factors
such as the availability and proximity of services such as electricity, aqueduct, sewers, telephones,
recreation, transportation, the site's commercial potential, area, materials, how well the property has been
maintained, and factors dealing with income generation as related to the property.
108



Depending on the degree to which they are affected, the following compensation subsidies may be
considered:
1. Subsidy for temporary closure of business: This is applied in those cases when the business must be
closed and moved, for an estimated period of one month. In this case the subsidy to be given will be
the equivalent of one month of fixed costs plus utilities for the same period.
2. Subsidy for moving expenses: This is applied in those cases when it will be necessary to haul
furniture and goods, or materials resulting from demolition, with a single payment being established,
for an amount to be determined according to diagnostic of the property register.
3. Resettlement subsidy: This is applied when the family must move from the site where it resides, and
an amount is given for the head of the household, the spouse and each underage child or student who
is economically dependent on the head of the household.
4. Subsidy for loss of income: This is applied when some revenue or income is lost due to moving. This
subsidy shall be estimated on the value of income lost for six months.
5. Subsidy for legal expenses: In those cases when it is necessary to transfer a property to the State, the
cost of legal expenses incurred in this transaction shall be covered.
Form of payment. In the case of partially affected lots and of unoccupied construction, 100 percent of
the value of the appraised replacement shall be paid at the time the site is delivered to MOH, from the
time of payment, so that people can build their replacement house or shop.
* Counseling for the construction or remodeling of dwellings or shops
* MOH shall assign an engineer and an architect to help families with designs and offer them assistance
during the construction process. Together with the social expert, families will be given counseling so
that they can finish their replacement houses or shops within the delivery deadline agreed with MOH.
* Counseling for acquisition of lot
* For a family who cannot be relocated on its same lot, counseling should be provided for the purchase
of the lot, which shall consist of information on existing offers, analysis of the socioeconomic
suitability of each and the legal paperwork for purchase of the lot.
* Social counseling and follow-up
*  MOH shall have an expert in social sciences to coordinate all activities inherent to the execution of
the plan, with all the entities and agencies intervening, to ensure their timely compliance and to carry
out the social management that allows families to re-establish their living conditions.
* Solutions under local government responsibility
* MOH shall follow up and advise the local government on compliance with commitments agreed upon
by the person affected, the local government and MOH.
Procedure for acquisition of lots. Based on the indications proposed by the technical team and
approved by the Ministry of Health, the MOH Legal Department shall begin the procedures to acquire
lots and improvements:
1. Notification given to owner and request for authorization to execute the work, subject to explanation
of his benefits and rights in order to receive compensation.
109



2. Traverse survey of area to be affected in each lot.
3. Appraisal and negotiation of affected area. The appraisal for replacement shall then be made, in
accordance with criteria established in the diagnostic of the property register. This appraisal must
have the approval of government entities responsible for State assets, for which the MOH Legal
Department should call for the establishment of an Official Appraisal Commission for thi s purpose,
having legal power for the corresponding negotiation.
4. Once the negotiation is completed, an appraisal report shall be signed by both parties (affected
person/MOH Legal Department and/or the affected person/Appraisal Commission).
5. The appraisal and traverse reports, the title deed, evidence of value and personal documerts should be
attached to a compensation agreement that the corresponding authorities should sign so that it can be
processed, according to El Salvador's legal framework (the Ministry of MOH and the President of the
Republic).
6. Once the agreement is returned and signed, it shall be sent to the Attorney General's Office with all
pertinent documents, at which time a lawyer shall be appointed to record the lot to be compensated in
favor of the State.
7. When this document is duly recorded, the respective payment order should be prepared.
Acquisition of Improvements. This shall be done in the same manner as items I to 5 listed in the
previous section (in item 3 the affected improvements are appraised).
0  The payment order for the negotiated amount shall then be prepared.
Forced Expropriation. If no agreement is reached for negotiation, it will be necessary to resort to the
sections corresponding to forced expropriation specified in the country's legal and regulatory framework
(see Legal Framework).
Presentation of Resettlement Plan. Taking into account types of persons and lots and the degree to
which they are affected, as well as the degree of vulnerability of the affected population, presenting the
alternative solutions considered, cost, resolutions taken, agreements reached and the implementation
period for each Plan.
The process of acquiring lots and the building of solutions will require 5 months from the date of start-up,
provided that those cases requiring construction processes begin this process with the payment for
improvements, i.e., beginning the third month.
110



Environmental Guidelines for Construction and Supervision of Civil Works to Minimize
Environmental Impacts during Hospital Construction/Rehabilitation
Introduction. The construction specifications described below are meant to complement the
environmental impact mitigation or prevention activities resulting from the construction of hospital
centers to be financed by funds from the World Bank Loan. These specifications shall form an integral
part of the civil works construction contracts signed by MOH and contractors for the execution of works,
and should thus be including the respective bidding documents.
General aspects of environmental protection
General. The objective of the implementation of environmental specifications during the construction of
the financed hospital centers is to prevent significant, negative environmental changes as a consequence
of the construction of each hospital.
The Contractor and his personnel should avoid introducing unnecessary modification to habitats, parks,
recreation areas or nearby urban areas where the hospital will be located. The supervisor of the work
should certify that these specifications have been satisfactorily implemented.
Environmental monitoring of civil works. The construction of civil works defined in the bidding
documents should be carried out in accordance with work quality specifications and environmental
specifications, to the satisfaction of MOH and MARN which shall have free access for inspection during
the execution of these works.
Contractor's responsibility. The Contractor is obliged to construct civil works in accordance with the
design and environmental plans prepared by MOH and according to instructions indicated by the
supervisor during construction. If the Contractor, without the consent of the supervisor or the IEU, makes
changes to the original design in additional works that may arise during construction, he must remove
from the work site what has been built but not approved, without right to claims or compensation for costs
or time in relation to the service contract.
When work is performed in zones that are potentially hazardous to operators or neighbors affected by the
construction of works, as in the case of zones prone to landslides, cave-ins, removal of rubble, or sensitive
areas, the Contractor must take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of his operators and of those
affected, including communications and placement of necessary signs.
During the winter, the Contractor should prevent soil erosion resulting from the runoff of rainwater from
affecting the area of influence of its work areas. He should also leave the filling of executed works well
compacted, to the supervisor's satisfaction, as well as install works to reduce the erosion of soils, slopes
or landfills.
Until MOH receives definitive information on the works carried out by the Contractor, the latter shall be
responsible for providing and using the necessary safety measures to prevent or counteract the damages
that rain, wind or dust may cause to the work or the equipment installed, and also provide necessary
surveillance during the reception process.
111



Regarding the protection of private and State property, the Contractor shall be responsible fot adopting
the necessary measures to prevent and avoid any damage to private and public property, including
services, buildings, fences, paths and groves of trees located within or near the construction s te. The
Contractor shall be responsible for keeping affected neighbors informed about possible damages that may
occur and about measures taken to prevent such damages.
It shall be the Contractor's responsibility to repair any damage attributable to the work carried out or as a
consequence thereof.
Safety and Signs. During the construction stage, the contractor must take necessary measurc-s and
precautions for the traffic of equipment, machinery, vehicles and pedestrians in the project area, providing
adequate daytime and nighttime signs and when necessary temporarily closing off traffic.
Transportation of Materials. The transportation of materials for the work should be scheduled and
carried out so as to avoid damage to roads, streets and public and private highways, public services,
construction, crops or any type of public or private good. Transportation costs for this type cf work
should be included in the respective unit prices.
The transportation of construction material, rubble, cleared vegetation and other materials should be done
in covered vehicles; the material should be sprinkled with water if necessary and appropriate. The
Contractor shall be responsible for removing concrete rubble, rocks and cleared vegetation, v ithout the
right to receive additional payment since the cost of this activity should be included in the unit value of
the activity.
Environmental specifications
Pollution control in bodies of water. The Contractor shall protect surface and ground water runoff or
any other type body of water within the work's area of influence against accidental oil or fuel spills or
from the transportation of construction or waste materials. Should an accidental or premeditated spill
occur, the Contractor must inform the supervisor and take the necessary measures to counteract the
pollution that occurred.
The Contractor shall place sediment collectors for water used in washing aggregates and setting concrete,
oil and grease traps, or any other type of appropriate device downstream from the sources of production
of this water, collecting them before they are dumped into the final bodies of water.
The Contractor may not dump mud or rubble into bodies of water; this type of material may only be
dumped in dry areas not prone to flooding.
The use of equipment and machinery in natural channels must be approved by the supervisor and by the
respective local government.
The Contractor must keep any toxic elements safely protected to avoid the possibility of their being
intercepted or conducted to natural networks of surface or underground drainage.
The Contractor may not dump fuel or lubricants on the ground or in existing bodies of water.
The agreed unit price shall include the defined necessary measures and thus shall not be measured or paid
during the construction of works.
112



Noise pollution control. The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining permissible levels no
higher than 80db (what a human ear can withstand and allowing a person to speak without raising his
voice), incorporating in his machinery and equipment exhaust silencers, closed spaces for machinery
maintenance, or alarm devices or vehicle horns in accordance with the specified level.
The agreed unit price shall include the defined necessary measures and thus shall not be measured or paid
during the construction of works.
Air pollution control. The Contractor shall be responsible for controlling the quality of emissions, odors
and smoke related to his machinery and equipment, as well as to dust and the burning and use of toxic and
volatile chemical products. Operators should keep the lids of fuel, chemicals and paints closed and also
keep them in isolated areas.
Likewise, the Contractor shall be responsible for proper maintenance of his fuel-based machinery in order
to control the emission of gases, odors or smoke.
The Contractor may not bum out in the open any type of waste, trees or bushes, tires, rubber, plastics or
any other product that is hazardous to human health. These may be deposited in the sanitary landfill
identified during the design stage and duly authorized by the Supervisor and the corresponding local
government.
To avoid generating dust, the Contractor shall sprinkle water on surfaces exposed to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, avoiding the creation of puddles or mud. Likewise, if necessary, canvas should be used
to keep construction materials covered.
The agreed unit price shall include the defined necessary measures and thus shall not be measured or paid
during the construction of works.
Occupational health and hygiene. The Contractor shall adopt the necessary occupational safety
measures in each of his job sites, giving staff the necessary accessories such as protective helmets, dust
masks, steel-toed rubber boots, etc. When there are five or more workers, the Contractor shall provide
adequate, transportable sanitary facilities for feces disposal. If it is necessary to build a septic tank, the
Contractor shall ask the supervisor to approve the site, and the Contractor shall be responsible for filling
the ditch once the work is completed and for returning the selected site to its original conditions.
Pavement removal and replacement. The Contractor shall be responsible for depositing the removed
pavement (asphalt, stone, hydraulic concrete) to sites away from roads and in places selected by the
supervisor. The replaced pavement should be of equal or higher quality than the previous one.
Dump. The Contractor shall ensure that the area utilized has proper drainage to avoid soil erosion.
Before beginning to dispose of materials, the Contractor shall remove trash dumped at the site as well as
construct drainage ditches in the necessary sites identified by the Supervisor.
113



Annex 2e: Monitoring and Evaluation
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will assess project performance in meeting project
objectives and achieving the desired outcomes and outputs. It will collect and analyze data for the
indicators in the logical framework and other variables needed to monitor project activities. TIne M&E
system aims to answer the following questions: (i) Does the project achieve its development objectives?
(ii) Can variations in outcome indicators be explained by project-financed interventions or are they the
result of other factors unrelated to the project; (iii) What will have happened in the absence oi the project?
(iv) Do project outcomes vary across groups of intended beneficiaries across regions? If so, what factors
contribute to this variation? (v) Are there unintended effects of the project, either positive or r:egative?
(vi) Can project design be altered to improve impact? and (vii) Did the project justify its cost'.
To address these questions the M&E system will consist of the following components: (i) M&E strategic
plan; (ii) monitoring, and (iii) evaluation.
M&E Strategic Plan. Within one year of project start-up the borrower will prepare a framewvork and
action plan for evaluating impact and monitoring program processes and outputs. It will detai, the
objectives and mechanisms to carry out the monitoring and evaluation of each component. Nlonitoring
will include: a computerized management information system to track progress on activities, and
community monitoring, and field supervision. Evaluation will include both a mid-term formative
evaluation and impact evaluation, including baseline and endline measures. The impact evaluation
framework will specify expected outcomes, performance indicators, evaluation designs, data collection
approaches and analytical methods to evaluating project outcomes. A monitoring framework will detail
the management-oriented activities, processes and products that project managers are accountable for
delivering to target populations, MOH authorities and to the Bank. Monitoring will aim to make
information collection, analysis and feedback a systematic and routine activity. In addition to the above,
sources of information will also include observations made during supervision field visits, existing and to-
be-implemented management information systems, disease surveillance systems and population based
surveys such as the DHS. Qualitative methods will also be used to obtain information on beneficiary
conditions and perceptions related to implementation processes and service quality.
Monitoring. The project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management
information system (MIS) to track progress on activities, products and expenditures during
implementation. Drawing on the logical framework and Institutional Modernization Benchmark Matrix,
the MIS will collect data on key indicators, processes and outputs. It will also track compliance with
targets set for coverage of beneficiaries established for basic services extension and improvement,
prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and prevention and control of dengue. Project-based data will also
draw on MOH information systems, statistical registers and MIS maintained by external agents active in
the types of activities supported by the project. Inputs from field visits will also be included. 'Fhe firm to
be contracted to execute Component I (hospital reconstruction) will design its own MIS and provide
monthly feedback to the MOH. The indicators to be included in the Component I MIS will be agreed
with the MOH and the Bank.
Community Monitoring. Community monitoring of the delivery of basic health services and HIV/AIDS
interventions will be an integral part of the monitoring of the project. A system will be createdl to allow
for the channeling of complaints and suggestions from beneficiary communities to program managers,
and addressed in a timely manner. Information will also be gathered through simple, exit surveys of
beneficiaries, spot interviews and focus groups. These data will be consolidated and reviewed on a regular
basis by the PCU.
114



Evaluation
Formative Evaluation. Within one year of start-up, the borrower will have completed baseline surveys
for all project-supported activities, according to the monitoring and evaluation plan. Within two years of
project start-up, an external agent will conduct a formative evaluation to assess progress toward achieving
project objectives and outcomes. The purpose is to provide insight into the problems related to the
implementation of each intervention and ways to overcome them. It will consider each of the project's
components, focus on delivery of programmed activities and products, and recommend adjustments to
project design, delivery systems and implementafion plans. The formative evaluation will involve
document analysis and make use of qualitative methods such as focus groups, interviews with key
informants and rapid assessments of beneficiaries' experience with the project. These will be applied to
small samples of beneficiaries, project staff and MOH personnel involved in project implementation.
Impact Evaluation. An external impact evaluation will be conducted to assess the effects of project
interventions using the indicators of the logical framework as a reference. The impact evaluation will be
based mainly on the use surveys applied to households, providers, MOH personnel and other beneficiaries
of project-financed activities. Evaluating the impact of interventions of basic services extension and
improvement and prevention and treatment of HIV /AIDS will involve non-experimental designs
consisting of baseline and follow-up surveys applied to both treatment and comparison groups. The
project will also support the design and implementation of baseline and end-line population-based surveys
to measure multi-sector knowledge, attitude, practices and behaviors (KAPB) related to control of
mosquito vectors and HIV/AIDS. Measuring the impact of institutional and organizational interventions
will involve gathered data through pre-post surveys, structured interviews and focus groups. Where
possible, existing survey programs such as the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) will be used.
115



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
El Salvador: Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction And
Health Services Extension Project
Project Cost By Component
Project Cost By Component     US $million -  US $million    US
Local        Foreign   $million -
l Total
I. Emergency Reconstruction Health    42.6          63.9       106.5
Policy Design and Implementation
II. Health and Nutrition Coverage      5.6           8.4       14.0
Extension in the Earthquake Affected
Areas
III. MOH's Institutional Development   2.7          10.9       13.6
IV. Project Management                 2.0           2.0        3.9
Total Baseline Cost                   52.9          85.2       138.0
Physical Contingencies 10%            6.3          10.1        16.4
Price Contingencies 6%                4.9           4.9        9.8
Total Project Costs:   64.1         100.2       164.3
Front End Fee 1%                   1.4         1.4
Total Financing Required    64.1         101.6      165.7
116



Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
Proiect Cost by Categ-ory of Expenditure  Local     Foreign  Total
1. Works (Comp.l)                           34.5       34.5     69.0
2. Goods                                    1.6        29.8     31.3
(a) Component I                           1.5        29.2     30.7
(b) All others                            0.0         0.6      0.6
3. Consultants' Services                    10.4       10.4     20.8
(a) Component I                           6.4         6.4      12.9
(b) All others                            4.0         4.0      7.9
4. Training                                0.54       0.54      1.1
(a) Component I                           0.11       0.11      0.2
(b) Components II and IV                  0.4         0.4      0.8
5. Health Service Providers (Comp. II)      3.6         2.4      6.1
6. Investments Areas (Comp.III)             2.2         8.8      11.0
(a) Institutional Improvement and         0.9         3.7      4.7
Descentralization (Programs)
(b) MOH Strengthening                     1.3         5.0      6.3
7.Grants (Fund)                             0.1         0.4      0.5
8. Pharmaceuticals and materials            1.2         4.7      5.9
(a) Component II                          0.7         2.9      3.6
(b) Component III                         0.5         1.8      2.3
9. Audits                                   0.2         0.8      1.0
|(a) Component I                           0.2         0.7      0.9
(b) All others                            0.0         0.1      0.1
10. Incremental Operating Costs             0.5         0.5      1.1
(a) Component I (IEU)                     0.1         0.1      0.3
(b) All others (PCU and Component III)    0.4         0.4      0.8
Total Baseline Cost (*)                     54.9       92.8    147.6
11. Front-End Fee (1%)                      0.0         1.4      1.4
12. Unallocated                             7.5         7.5      15.0
Total Project Costs:    64.1      101.6    165.7
117



Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary
El Salvador: Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension Project
This annex presents the summary results of: (i) the cost-benefit analysis; (ii) the sensitivity analysis; and
(iii) the fiscal impact and sustainability analysis.
A.    Cost-Benefit Analysis. Measurable economic benefits and costs are quantified, in present value
terms, of implementing a project of this magnitude. The economic analysis was conducted on the three
project components:
1. Cost/Benefit Analysis of Component I (Emergency Reconstruction): Direct benefits were quantified
based on cost savings from the expected reduction in average length of stays (ALOS) as wvell as
achieving greater efficiency through strengthening hospital management of the hospitals to be
rehabilitated. Indirect benefits were estimated based on the reduction of maternal and general
inpatient mortality rates. In the case of new hospitals, no direct benefits were considered since in the
situation "without the project" the hospitals do not exist. Direct benefits and costs were
conservatively assumed to net each other out. Thlerefore only indirect benefits were considered,
based on the positive impact on productive life years saved through the expected reduction of
mortality and morbidity.
2. Cost/Benefit Analysis of Component 11 (Strengthening MOH Primary Care Provider Network and
Contracting NGO Providers): Direct benefits were estimated based on cost savings generated by the
project through improving the health conditions and the health services network. Indirect benefits
were estimated based on productivity improvements in the labor force through reduced morbidity and
mortality expected from this project.
3. Cost/Benefit Analysis of Component III (MOH Institutional Development for Policy Formiation,
National Priority Programs and Support Systems): The analysis only measured the direct benefits of
reducing the number of AIDS and related cases and the indirect economic benefits estimaled from
productive life years saved.
The overall project will produce a number of additional and important indirect benefits that will be
measured by the monitoring and evaluation system to allow for ex post evaluation, but will not be
assumed ex ante. The time span used to assess the project's attractiveness was ten (10) years. To
determine the overall cost-benefit of the proposed investment, the economic analysis includes a total
investment cost of US$145.0 million, plus nearly US$37.1 million in recurrent expenditure per year
related to the ongoing costs associated with improving access to primary health care services in the target
regions, managing and operating the new hospital infrastructure network and managing the AIDS
Detection and Control Program.
Assumptions
The following parameters are considered relev ant in estimating the economic benefits of the proposed
project: the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health system performance, the
existing patterns of expenditure in each category and existing levels of hospital utilization ancl of
morbidity and mortality. A discount rate of 10 percent is used in line with the Bank's 10-12 percent
recommendation for discount rates in economic analysis. Given the medium-to-long-term effevt of the
changes, the estimates assume a project horizon of 10 years.
The analysis uses the following assumptions to measure the direct and indirect benefits:
It 18



For contracting of NGOs to extend coverage of basic health services:
(i)      A 1 0-year time horizon was used to estimate benefits;
(ii)     Benefits arise from reductions in mortality and morbidity rates by type of case; these
reductions are estimated based on observed results from similar studies in other Latin
American countries;
(iii)    The cost per hospital admission was estimated at US$187.03 for projections starting in
2000 to estimate savings in hospitalizations;
(iv)     The investment in the Project corresponds to the financing made available; the
investment is distributed throughout the first four years; as of the fifth year the MSPAS
will assume the total recurring costs;
(v)      Per capita costs for the extension of basic health services was estimated at US$15;
(vi)     Direct benefits are generated through the reduction in hospital admissions;
(vii)    Indirect benefits are generated through the gain of productive years through reductions in
mortality and morbidity;
(viii)    A discount rate of 10 percent was used to discount future project cash flows.
For hospitals to be rehabilitated:
(ix)     Maternal mortality rates will drop by 20 percent;
(x)      General inpatient mortality rates will drop by 20 percent;
(xi)     Reductions in mortality and morbidity rates will occur gradually over five years,
achieving the target at the end of year five;
(xii)    Average LOS will drop by 20 percent;
(xiii)    Operating efficiency improvements will generate 10 percent savings through stronger
management;
(xiv)    The reduction in LOS and efficiency improvements will be achieved in three years;
(xv)     The indirect benefit attributable to a reduction in the transport time for patients as an
indication of the opportunity cost to the patient; the indirect benefit is therefore the
savings for patients due to the reduction in travel time;
(xvi)    Recurring costs for hospitals is estimated at 24 percent per year;
(xvii)   A discount rate of 10 percent was used to discount future project cash flows and a
discount rate of 4 percent was used to discount future benefits from saved lives.
For hospitals to be replaced:
(i)    Maternal mortality rates will drop by 20 percent;
(ii)    General inpatient mortality rates will drop by 40 percent;
(iii)    Reductions in mortality and morbidity rates will occur gradually over three years,
achieving the target at the end of year three;
(iv)    Direct benefit from a reduction in transport costs for the patient
(v)    Indirect benefit for the reduced time in the patient transport reflected as savings in
opportunity cost;
(vi)    Benefits begin to show as of the third year since during the first two years only investments
are made to construct the hospitals;
(vii)   Recurring costs for hospitals is estimated at 24 percent per year;
(viii)   A discount rate of 10 percent was used to discount future project cash flows and a discount
rate of 4 percent was used to discount future benefits from saved lives.
In the fiscal impact section, these assumptions will also be used to assess, from an economic perspective,
the impact of the project on public finances. All target reductions in morbidity and mortality will be
119



reached after three years.
Summary of Costs and Benefits
The project will yield a net present value (NPV) of benefits, after investment and recurrenlt cc ts of US
$108 million and produce an internal rate of return (IRR) of 28 percent over 10 X cars. I-he m, in results
are shown in Table 1. Assuming the cost and benefit measures were estimated conservatively, then NPV
> 0, CBR >I or IRR > discount rate (i0 percent) will automatically imply that the project isv v-rth
supporting. Several factors indicate the present analysis is more likely to underestimate the fill value
than to overestimate benefits. For example, the presence of hospital renewed infrastructure in the target
regions will allow patients to be treated locally, rather than having to travel while sick to recel . e
treatment outside their community. The local treatment of patients, therefore, eliminates thes.- travel
costs and generally allows for better care of patients in their own communities.
Table 1: Estimated Costs and Benefits
5 years            10 years
NPV (USS millions)              (I1.925,461)       122,671 .944
I RR                                                3.5
Cost Benefit Ratio (CBR)                           1.76
Note: NPV Benefits is equal to the direct and indirect benefits. minus total pro]cct co) ts
(in US$ millions)
Benefit: Cost is equal to total benefits divided by total coSs
IRR was calculated based on a ten year time horizon
TI-he pro ject will produce benefits and savings for the health sector and El Salvador in general. pr-imarily
throuigh reductions in hospitalization costs, mortality, morbidity and the local resolultioll of pat ients needs.
IThe cost-benefit analysis, which gives the project a CBR of 1.76, will yield significalnt hcalth hernefits and
econoinic benefits for the population of El Salvador. Even when prQjected recurrent expenditures
generated by the project are considered, the stream of benefits shows that the project Xx Ill be delemed
highly desirable and will be financially sustainable.
The quantified estimated benefits for the three components are presented in Fable ' Overall ::enef its
outweigh investments nearly two to one. Over 10 years, the net present value of the project k: 11 yield
benefits of approximately US$122.7 million. With the exception of the first several years, the project is
expected to generate annual savings to the system that outstrip the investment cost. thereby paying for
them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is estimated at 33.5 perccnt. reflecting the high
benelits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the value of this project relative to
other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate ( 10 percent) wvill hirpl% that the
project should not be carried out.
120



The benefits from strengthening the primary care network arise from two reasons. First, the project is
expected to generate a positive impact through a greater resolution of cases at the local level, thus
reducing patient hospital referrals, and second, by reducing risk factors in the community that increase
hospital demand. As a starting point, the volume of hospital discharges in the target regions was
estimated using information from similar regions and populations. Feasible hospitalization targets were
set based on this estimated current demand. The gradual realization of these targets was then used to
quantify the economic benefit from reduced hospitalizations. The study estimated savings of roughly
$12.7 million in present value terms through the reduction of 112,554 hospital admissions. Additional
benefits arise from the increase in productive years for the labor force through improved health indices.
In addition, the project promotes greater equality in access to health care services in underserved areas.
The benefits from the extension of basic health services in underserved areas are significant. This
component of the project involves the contracting of NGOs to provide health services in the near
term, without having to invest significant resources in infrastructure. For a ten-year time horizon the
present value of the costs is approximately US$23.6 million, while the present value of the benefits is
approximately US$52.1 million, thus justifying the implementation of the project. The IRR for this
component of the overall project is 62.5 percent while the CBR is 2.6. Therefore, the Extension of
Essential Health and Nutrition Services component of the project will have a high positive impact in the
target communities.
Table 2: Summary of Costs and benefits over 10 years
IUS millions (in constant 2000 dollars]
|Year |Project       Direct     Indirect     Total        Total Net    Net Present Value
Costs         Benefits    Benefits    Benefits     Benefits     (5 and 10 years)
2002  56,603,994     1,762,064   6,339,760    8,101,824    (48,502,169)
2003  68,600,684     3,759,323   15,200,829    18,960.152   (49,640,531)
2004  37,224.173     5,043,852   36,920,444   41,964,296   4,740,124
2005  30,286,775     5,827,209   59,365,087   65,192,296   34,905,521
2006  29,730,157     5,932,849   73,833,691    79,766,541    50,036,384   (29,311,910)
2007  29,730,157     6,052,253   75,690,392   81,742,645   52,012.488
2008  29,730,157     6,185,795   77,549,179   83,734,974   54,004,817
2009  29,730,157     6,333,860   79,471,447    85,805,307    56,075,150
2010  29,730,157     6,496,844   81,397,241    87,894,085    58,163,928
2011  29,730,157     6,675,155   83,387,983   90,063,138   60,332,981
Total 371,096,566    54,069,204  589,156,054  643,225,258  272,128,693   114,964,459
Component I will have a highly positive impact due to the large number of lives covered by the
reconstruction/substitution of seven hospitals. The seven hospitals cover a population of over three
million persons. This component of the project is estimated to have a net present value of US$86.2
million over ten years, after investments and recurring costs are taken into account. This high net present
value is achieved despite the fact that direct benefits were not considered in its calculation. The hospitals
were valued operating at cost, since they are public hospitals. Therefore, net costs and benefits were
assumed to cancel themselves out. In this manner, on indirect benefits were considered, such as
reductions in the mortality and morbidity rates, translated into productive life years saved. The value of
these productive life years was estimated from the projected future income generated by them.
The third component of the Project involves the detection and control of HIV/AIDS and STDS. Since
information on the state and scale of the AIDS crisis in El Salvador was not available, projections were
made based on a similar program evaluated in Russia by SANIGEST. The direct benefits from this
program stem from the number of AIDS cases prevented. The annual benefits amount to US$ 2.2
121



million, assuming an annual cost for the care and treatment of AIDS of US$4,000, not including anti-
retroviral medications. This program is estimated to save 303 lives over ten years, representing economic
savings of approximately US$19.7 million.
In terms of the total costs of implementing the entire project, the analysis considers two basic elements:
(i) the external investment costs of the World Bank project; and (ii) the recurrent costs. The total project
cost amounts to roughly US$351 million over ten years. The World Bank will finance $144 inillion and
local funding sources will finance roughly $207 million in recurrent costs. The recurrent cosis reach
$34.1 million per year after the fourth year, once the project is fully operational. This amoun: includes
the recurrent and incremental costs of investments in equipment and maintenance, as well as l:he cost of
increasing the coverage of basic health services through the primary care network and the operating costs
of the proposed hospitals.
B. Sensitivity Analysis: Risk Analysis
While the above results are conservative, it is important to test the robustness of the results w;th regard to
potential delays or reductions in benefits. Sensitivity analysis explores how plausible changes in
assumptions about uncertain variables affect conclusions regarding the project. Uncertainty in the three
main assumptions is reflected by using sensitivity analysis to test the impact of delays of 2 and 3 years, as
well as a reduction in benefits of 20 percent, and 40 percent (Table 3).
Table 3 shows the effect of delays and lower than expected benefits on the NPV and IRR. Overall, the
project will remain justifiable even assuming a 3 year delay in project benefits or a 20 percent reduction
in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which dictate that annual rate of return
earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project, to maintain an efficient
allocation of Bank resources. The high IRR also underscores the cost-effective nature of the program. A
significant reduction in benefits of 40 percent will no longer justify the project, assuming no additional
benefits are generated other than those estimated conservatively in this study. However, the conservative
nature of the estimates makes it possible that even at a 40 percent reduction in benefits, unaccounted for
benefits could still make the project justifiable.
The present                      Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis                     assessment
only values                                                                        economic
benefits, and                                     NPV                 IRR          does not
implicitly     Type of sensitivity            (USS million)           (%)          va.lue social
benefits.      Base Case                       114,964,459           28.9%         E%. aluations
based solely    2-year delay                   49,289,350            22.7%         on economic
values can     3-year delay                    22,062,102             17.3%        lead to market
failures,      20% reduction in benefits       38,017,744             17%          especially in
poverty        40% reduction in benefits      -85,096,999            -10%          stricken
regions.                                                                           Such market
failures                                                                           usually
necessitate government intervention to remedy the situation. Therefore, it is important for the present
study to be judged not only on its quantifiable economic merits but also on its unquantifiable and
tangential social benefits to the populations of the target regions in El Salvador. One such intangible
benefit is the promotion of
greater equality in access to public health services in El Salvador, a country where the poor, r ural and
indigenous populations have traditionally had lower health indices and poorer access to health services.
122



C. Fiscal Impact and Sustainability
This section examines the financial impact that the overall Project has or the fiscal burden resulting from
project implementation (during project execution and recurrent costs).
The first step in the analysis of the project sustainability is to establish the base level expenditures prior to
the implementation of the project. To the baseline expenditure for project investments, estimates are
made on the recurrent costs over a five-year period following project completion. These expenditures are
then compared with the projected expenditures of the public sector institutions, and in particular the
MSPAS, to determine if the burden of recurrent expenditure is reasonable in the context of the MSPAS'
financing capacity and its mission.
In 2000, total public health expenditures in El Salvador accounted for roughly 3.2 percent of the GDP, or
approximately $67 per capita. The MSPAS is one of the dominant financiers in the health sector. Based
on the observed pattern of expenditure, projections are estimated at an annual growth rate of 2 percent for
both the MSPAS and the public health sector as a whole. This is compared with the projected
expenditure schedule for the project and the estimated recurrent costs to determine the overall financial
sustainability of the project.
Based on the current conservative projections for health expenditures, the cost of implementing the
project will represent approximately 15.4 percent of the total MSPAS expenditure on health care services
in El Salvador and approximately 7.2 percent of total public health expenditures, after the fourth year of
the project, which is the starting point to analyze the sustainability of the project. Despite these relatively
high percentages, it is important to consider that the project will cover primary care and hospitalizations
for approximately 3.7 million lives in the target regions, thus representing roughly one third of the total
population of El Salvador. Therefore, given the social need to cover the target populations it is
reasonable to project MSPAS expenditures that take into account the current project's recurrent costs.
The alternative of not including the recurrent costs of this project in the MSPAS budget will leave the
target population largely uncovered by health services after the devastating earthquakes of early 2001.
123



Annex 5: Financial Summary
El Salvador: Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extensionl Project
Years Ending 2007
(In Thousands)
Project Costs 
Year 1   Year2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5  TOTAL
Total Project
Financing    8,439    38,039    89,481    20.966     6,964      163,8(
InvestmentCosts         I    -              1 
8,017    36,138    85007    19,918     6,615
Recurrent Costs1
422    1,902     4,474      1,048       348     8,194
Total Project Costs    8,439    38,039    89.481    20,966    6,964   163,890
Interest during
construction
_______________________.____,__  __ _____-___          I    ________
Front-end Fee    1,427 _                                           1.427
Total Financing                  I
Required    9,866    38,039    89,481    20,966     6,964   165,700
124



Annex 6: Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines. Procurement Under IBRD Loans and BANK Credits ", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines. Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers " published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods. The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts of each method, are summarized in Table A.
Procurement of Works. Works to be procured under the Loan and totaling about US$76.7
million equivalent (including contingencies) are the following: (i) rehabilitation of three hospitals
and (ii) construction of four hospitals. The construction and rehabilitation of hospitals under Bank
financing, costing US$5.0 million equivalent or more per contract and an estimated US$59.1
million in aggregate, would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Pre-qualification of bidders shall be
required for construction contracts costing US$10.0 million or more per contract. Provided that
operational and construction standards satisfactory to the Bank are available, hospital facilities may
be constructed on the basis of turn-key basis following two-stage bidding procedures. Under the
first stage unpriced technical proposals on the basis of a conceptual design and performance
specifications are invited, subject to technical and commercial clarifications and adjustments. On
the basis of these proposals the bidding documents are amended. At the second stage, bidders are
invited to submit final technical proposals and priced bids. Contracts for rehabilitation costing less
than US$5.0 million per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$8.3 million, may be procured
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures with standard bidding documents to be
agreed in advance with the Bank. It is proposed that works contracts will be advertised, bid,
contracted and supervised by the Construction Management firm (CMF).
Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the project may include medical instruments and
equipment for new and existing medical facilities, pharmaceuticals, computer equipment, software
licenses, general office and medical furniture, totaling US$47.6 million equivalent. To the extent
possible, contracts for goods procured will be grouped into bidding packages of more than
US$250,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures, using Bank-issued Standard
Bidding Documents (SDBs). Contracts for medical instruments and equipment and other goods
with estimated values below this threshold per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$6.1
million, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure and standard
bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Contracts for equipment, furniture and other
goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.6 million may be procured using
shopping (National/International) procedures, using a model request for quotations acceptable to
the Bank.
Selection of Consultants. Consulting services will be contracted in the project for the provision of
technical assistance in the following areas construction management of the civil works component,
civil works design and supervision, policy design and implementation, health sector regulatory
framework, restructuring and human resources planning and reengineering, institutional
strengthening (including the organization, operation and procurement of the MIS system for the
MOH), studies and assessments, training, project monitoring, supervision. These services are
estimated to cost US$35.2 million equivalent and would be procured using the Bank's Standard
125



Request for Proposals (RFP) document whenever advertisement for Expressions of Interest in
Development Business (DB) is required. For consultant service contracts with an estimated price
below the threshold of US$200,000 equivalent, standard RFP agreed in advance with the E3ank will
be used.
Firms:
All consulting services with contract values above US$100,000 will be procured using the QCBS
procedure, using Bank RFP, with an estimated aggregate value of US$18.0 million equivalent.
Other consulting services of a routine nature, such as, technical assistance, supervision, and
training activities and for project periodic and annual audits, with contract values estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent, may be contracted following Least-Cost selection procedures, as
described in paragraph 3.6 of Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$12.2 million
equivalent. All terms of reference (TORs) for consulting services in this category would be
subject to prior review ofthe Bank. For contracts valued at more than US$100,000, Bank's prior
review would apply also to short lists, criteria for selection and contracting documentatior.
Individuals:
Specialized advisory or technical assistance and project administration services, including long-
term staff in the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the Infrastructure Executing Unit (I EU),
would be provided by national and international individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million
equivalent. All PCU key staff and IEU staff positions should be advertised on the basis ofithe
expected total duration and value of the assignment. Contracts will be annual to comply with local
laws and renewed annually.. All TORs would be subject to prior review by Bank, and for zontracts
valued above US$50,000, Bank prior review would apply to the personal information (C' s) and
honoraria of all proposed candidates.
Training. The project will finance activities related to the delivery of training seminars and
workshops, production and printing of training materials, and logistics costs related to
transportation, housing and subsistence of trainees and trainers, national and international study
tours to foster professional development of MOH staff in hospital management, essential health
and nutrition services delivery, health policies, and implementation. Contracting of these activ ities
will be done according to the procedures and contract value thresholds agreed for the procurement
of other consultant's services in the project.
Operational Costs. These costs include consumable goods required to operate the PCU and other
expenditures related to contracts of administrative (support) staff, office rentals and utilities,
maintenance of office equipment and consumable office supplies and per diems, transportation and
logistic expenditures to conduct supervision.
Prior review thresholds. The proposed thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B.
Assessment of the Agency's capacity to implement procurement
Since neither the proposed PCU nor the IEU was in place at the time of appraisal, the assessment of
these units was not possible. However, the Ministry has an existing unit for routine procurement
(UACI). This unit manages all MOH procurement with 36 staff under a qualified Director. The
unit follows the new National Procurement Law for local contracting using an Operation M4anual
which contains all the requirements included in the new law. The law is generally consislent with
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Where conflict exists (see Special Provisions in Procurernent),
Bank procedures will be employed. The good performance of UACI indicates that the MOH has
the capacity to undertake procurement on a systematic basis. To ensure adequate capacitv at
126



project start-up, the PCU coordinator, the heads of Components II, III, and monitoring and
evaluation, and the full financial/procurement unit will need to be contracted, with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank, prior to effectiveness. The initiation of the selection process for the head
of the IEU was a condition of negotiations and it has been complied with.
Organization. The PCU will be responsible for components II through IV, comprising: (i)
coordination of all project activities; (ii) implementation of procurement activities, as included in
the GPP and its annual updates, with the assistance of consultants or, if decided, of a procurement
agent (PA), (iii) coordination of the Action Plan with MOH technical units, (iv) giving no objection
to all procurement activities, which fall below thresholds for prior review by the Bank, as agreed in
the legal documents, (v) conducting budgeting, monitoring and supervision, and disbursement
activities, and (vi) maintenance of all records required for the project.
The IEU will be responsible for component I, comprising: (i) coordination of all project activities,
as included in the GPP and its annual updates; (ii) supervision of contract activities carried out by
the CMF; (iii) supervision of the budget; (iv) monitoring and submission to the Bank of all
documents subject to prior review, disbursement requests and progress reports and, (v)
maintenance of all records required for the project.
PCU and IEU Staffing. For successful operation of the project, it is proposed that the PCU and
IEU be staffed with an adequate number of staff who should be skilled to perform key roles in
technical, financial, procurement, disbursement and administrative activities. Five staff are required
by the PCU to manage all procurement activities, comprising two procurement specialists and three
procurement assistants. In addition, the PCU will have a small group of technical staff assisting
Project Component Coordinators (II through IV) as "change agents" who will be responsible to
assist MOH managers in advancing project implementation. It is noted that a successful operation
of the PCU would demand a strong role of the Project Coordinator to coordinate project activities,
while also ensuring that activities on monitoring and evaluation deliver consistent, timely and
substantive information/reports to ensure coherence and responsiveness of project implementation
activities during its life. The selection process for the Coordinator for the IEU. For the IUE two
high level staff are required, one engineer or architect to cover technical aspects and manage the
unit and a legal counsel on retainer. The selection and contracting of the head of the PCU is a
condition of effectiveness. Financial aspects of procurement would be handled by the financial
unit shared with the PCU
Procurement Agent (PA). It was also agreed during negotiations that if for any reason the PCU
procurement team cannot be established or fails to perform as expected, MOH will engage the
services of a PA that would be responsible for carrying out procurement management of
components II to IV. GOES has opted for direct contracting and will be responsible for paying for
the PA's management fees with counterpart funds.
Construction Management Firm (CMF). A Construction Management firm shall be contracted
for implementation of Component 1. Terms of reference for the CMF have been prepared and
were agreed with GOES during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations. It is proposed that a
public notice for expressions of interest will be published in the DB prior to Board presentation .
The preparation of the short list and letter of invitation for the selection and contracting of the firm
will be condition of effectiveness. Contracting of the CMF is a condition of disbursement.
Monitoring and Supervision of the Procurement Function. The Director of the PCU and the
IEU would be responsible to assist the MOH to achieve a timely and quality delivery of the
infrastructure and the other components included in the emergency reconstruction initiative with
the assistance of the CMF.
127



The overall project risk for procurement is high . Once the PCU and the IEU are functioning and
the CMF for Component I has been contracted, this rating could be improved. An Action Plan has
been prepared and discussed during appraisal, and will be agreed at negotiations. A draft
Operational Manual (OM) will be prepared for Negotiations, to be finalized prior to Effectiveness.
T he following is the proposed Action Plan to be agreed with MOH at Negotiations. An updated
Action Plan to include any necessary activity for the strengthening of procurement activities of the
CMF will be prepared once the firm has been contracted.
ACTION PLAN
PLANNING
J   Completion of GPP for the project, and the    O   By appraisal
detailed procurement plan for the first year of the
project implementation
LI  Annual Procurement Plans                  O   Ongoing. Report to Bank delays above 15
calendar days of agreed procurement schedule.
POLICY & PROCEDURES _
L   Plreparation of chapter in the Operational  O   Draft by negotiations for Bank's prior review.
Manual (OM) regarding (i) procurement         O   Adoption by effectiveness
covenants, (ii) detailed procedures for approval
and contracting of all contracts, (ii) detailed
definition of responsibilities between MOH and
CMF, and (iv) monitoring of procurement via
PMR-3 (SAFF)
TRAINING
Li  Periodic participation of PCU specialized  LI  Review with Bank during annual evaluation:;, or
staff in procurement workshops, as they become   earlier as training is available.
available during the life of the project.
El  Project Launch Seminar -Workshop on       LI  TBD
Project procurement. Participants will include
staff of the PCIJ, legal unit in MOH, and selected
officials in the Corte de Cuentas.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
O   Hliring of (a) Procurement Agent (PA), if  -i  If necessary, by effectiveness
required: (b) the PCU and IEU Coordinators, the
financial and procurement staff for each, and the
three key technical staff for the PCU (heads of
components 11, ttt and an M&E specialist
O   Hliring of the Construction Management    Oi  Advertisement of Expressions of Interest in DB
Firm (CMF) for Component 1.                   by Board presentation, preparation of short list and
letter of invitation for the hiring the firm by
effectiveness.
Li  Develop a system of identification including  LI  Publish by Jan 30 of each year, a notice of
a data base of specialized consultant firms that  Requests for "Expressions of Interest in Development
may be required to provide technical assistance    Business, and national press, yearly plans of
in critical areas, publishing requests for    contracting technical assistance.
expressions of interest at least every six months.   LI  Update notice no later than July 30 each year.
LI  Require use of a project control system (e.g.  L3
MS Project) by all technical staff in PCU and
IEU.
Li  Bi-annual review by the Bank of           LI  Beginning first semester after effectiveness.
contracting programs of consultants' services for
contracts below US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individual consultants.         _
PROCUREMENT RECORDS
Li  Maintain in one archive all documentation    LI  By effectiveness, or earlier, if retroactive
related to the selection, contracting and results    financing is used.
for each contract in the project.
Procurement Plan: A general procurement plan (GPP) for Components I through IV has been
prepared during appraisal. In the case of consultants in Components II to IV, a specific technical
128



assistance plan was prepared. It has been agreed that the PCU and the IEU would update and
finalize the Procurement Plan for the first year of project implementation at project start-up and
update it annually.
Advertising. A General Procurement Notice including works, goods and consultants services, is
scheduled to be published in the DB before Board presentation. Specific Procurement Notices will
be published, either in the DB, or regionally or locally according to the procurement method used
for that particular acquisition.
Procurement Records. Detailed Procurement records, reflecting the acquisition of works, goods
and consultant services, including the time to complete key steps in the process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by both the PCU and the
IEU. These records will be maintained for at least two years after project closing date. The
records for works and goods will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid
opening information, bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed
contracts with related addenda and amendments, records of claim and dispute resolution, and any
other relevant information. The records for consultants services will include public notices for
expression of interest, requests for proposals and addenda, technical and financial reports, formal
appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records of
claims and dispute resolution, and any other relevant information.
Monitoring and Progress Reporting. Beginning with the completion of each fiscal year of
project implementation. the PCU and the IEU will prepare annual implementation reports
(achievements, component implementation status and possible issues with remedial actions).
These reports will include an updated Annual Operation Plan for the implementation of the project
components during the corresponding fiscal year. The plan will be in turn the basis for the
preparation and submission of the procurement schedule.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. In addition to the prior review to be carried out by the
Bank, two supervision missions will be required during the first year of implementation, one of
which will carry out the post-review. Based on the overall risk assessment, the ex-post review
analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1 in 10 contracts signed.
Special Provisions in Procurement. There is no updated Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR); the latest was prepared by the Bank in December 1990. It is recommended that
the Bank prepare a new report taking into consideration the new procurement law, Decree No.
868, June 2000, which provides the basic rules for procurement of works, goods and services and
constitutes the country's regulatory framework for procurement. During Negotiations, special
provisions were agreed so that the principles indicated below will govern all procurement of
works, goods and services:
A. For the procurement of works and goods under International Competitive Bidding and
National Competitive Bidding:
1. Bids for works and goods shall be:
(a) submitted in a single envelope. The procedure with two envelopes is not allowed.
(b) the bidding documents shall specify the relevant factors in addition to price to be considered in
bid evaluation and the manner in which they will be applied for the purpose of determining the
lowest evaluated bid.
(c) there is no obligation for contractors or suppliers to be locally registered as a condition of
129



participation in the selection process.
(d) The bidding process shall not be discontinued upon the filing of administrative complaint
procedures requesting the review of bidding decisions.
2. In Art. 77 of the Borrower's procurement law the wording which refers to the suspension of the
contract process in the event of a complaint, will not apply.
B. For the procurement of consultants services:
1. Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection process;
2. Short lists shall comprise three to six firms.
130



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ M llion)
Procurement Method '
Expenditure Category                 ICB   NCB  Other (2) NBF        Total Cost
1. Works                                            68.4   8.3     0.0    0.0          76.7
(59.1) (7.0)   (0.0)  (0.0)        (66.1)
2. Goods                                                                              47.6
==__________________________________  __(40.9)
(a) Components 1, 11 & 4                          27.8   5.2     2.0    0.0          35.0
__ (24.0) (4.5)   (1.7)  (0.0)    (30.2)
(b) Component III                                 4.6   0.9      0.6                 6.1
._____________________________________________  (4.0)  (0.8)   (0.5)          (5.3)
(c) Pharmaceuticals and materials                6.5   0.0      0.0    0.0          6.5
(5.4)  (0.0)    0.0   (0.0)       (5.4)
3. Consultants' Services                                                               35.2
(30.2)
(a) Components 1, 11 & IV                         0.0   0.0    23.3   0.0            23.3
(0.0)  (0.0)   (20.0)  (0.0)      (20.0)
(b) Component III                                 0.0   0.0      3.9    0.0          3.9
(0.0)  (0.0)   (3.4)  (0.0)       (3.4)
(c) Health Service Providers (Comp. II)           0.0   0.0      6.8    0.0          6.8
(0.0)  (0.0)   (5.8)  (0.0)       (5.8)
(d) Technical and Project Audits                 0.0   0.0      1.2    0.0          1.2
(0.0)  (0.0)   (1.0)  (0.0)        (1.0)
4. Training                                                                            3.4
(2.9)
(a) Components I, II & IV                         0.0   0.0       1.2    0.0          1.2
(0.0)  (0.0)   (1.0)  (0.0)       (1.0)
(b) Component III (IIDS)                          0.0   0.0      2.2    0.0          2.2
(0.0)  (0.0)   (1.9)  (0.0)       (1.9)
5. Incremental Operating Costs                      0.0   0.0       1 .2    0.0         1.2
(0.0)  (0.0)   ( .0)  (0.0)        (1.0)
6. Front-End Fee (1%)                               0.0   0.0       1.4    0.0          1.4
(0.0)  (0.0)   (1.4)  (0.0)       (1.4)
Total                                              107.3  14.4    43.8   0.0           165.7
_(92.5) (12.3)  (37.7)  (0.0)      (142.6)
(1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by Bank. All costs include contingencies
(2) Procurement methodologies, where applicable, in this column include: (i) for goods: national or
international shopping;(ii) consulting services: procedures described in respective Section A of this Annex
6, (iii) for training (logistic of events) national shopping procedures, and study tours; and (v) for incremental
operational costs for PCU and IEU office space rentals, communications, utilities, etc.), national shopping
for other consumable office materials, and O&M of equipment or vehicles financed with proceeds from
loan.
131



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent, figures include contingencies)
Seii4kesfrraining                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Cost
QCBS        QCQ    SFB        LCS        CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms             18.0     N/A              12.2       N/A                           30.2
(15.7)                       (9 9)                    .            (25.6)
B. Individuals                                                        5.0                5.0
(4.6)_             (4.6)
Total                                                                          35.2
(30.2)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Corclmercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
9W- n'ditur tnra"Vau                              Pr"ocue ment         otat Subject
Cat or    (Threshold)                ~~~~~~Method      toPrior Review
US $ thousands                                US $ millions
1. Civil Works
More than $10,000,000             ICB                     All
Mandatory
Prequalification
More than $5,000,000             ICB                      A1ll
Less than $5,000,000            NCB                  First 2
contracts
Less than $350,000              3 Quotations        None
2. Goods
More than $250,000              ICB                      All
Less than $250,000              NCB                 First 2
contracts
Less than $50,000              Shopping             None
3.. Consulting
Services
(a) Firms        More than $200,000         QCBS, Mandatory             Ai
Publication
Less than $200,00 and more     QCBS                       All
than US$100,000
Less than $100,000           LCS                    TOR5s
(b) Individual.     Less than $50,000               Section V            TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  120.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
132



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Implementing Entities
The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be the implementing entity. With the objective of overcoming
the GOES' institutional inefficiencies while ensuring compliance with its regulatory framework,
two project units reporting directly to the Minister will be created within the MOH: the
Infrastructure Execution Unit (UEI) for Component I and the Project Coordination Unit (UCP) for
Components II and III.
For financial management purposes, the MOH will create a Secondary Financial Unit (USEFI), a
figure contemplated in the norms to the Financial Administration Law (Ley AFI). USEFI staff will
interact with MOH's Institutional Financial Unit (UFI) for matters of consolidation of budgetary
and accounting information, and flow of funds.
The contract management entity (EAC) will administer the reconstruction component and thus will
need a sound contract management system. Payments, however, will be made by the USEFI upon
receipt of documentation reviewed by the EAC.
Staffing
The USEFI would be headed by a Financial Manager reporting directly to the Project Coordinators,
and would include as minimum a Budget Specialist, a Treasurer, and an Accountant. The
contracting of consultants for these positions will follow the pertinent Bank Guidelines.
Assistants may be hired as needed for swift project execution.
Funds Flow
Loan. Loan funds will be disbursed to a Special Account that, as is the current practice in El
Salvador, will be opened for MOH by the General Treasury Directorate (DGT) of the MOF and
maintained in the Central Bank.
Once per week, the treasurer of the project financial unit (USEFI) will send Fund Requirements
through MOH's financial unit (UFI) to the DGT in accordance with the amount of documents
pending payment ("Accrual Report"). Fund Requirements and Accrual Reports are identified by
particular numbers.
Special Account funds will be transferred to the USEFI's Operational Account through MOH's
institutional account (this is a "bridge" account from which electronic transfers are made to the
operational account on the same day of-or the day after- receipt). Each transfer is identified with a
Fund Requirement and Accrual Report.
The operational account will be used to issue checks or transfers to the providers of goods and
services identified in the Accrual Report.
Under the described arrangement, it is expected that the time lapse between withdrawal from the
Special Account and payments made to providers would be less than a week. In any case, transfers
from the Special Account can only be outstanding for a limited period of 30 days. The monthly
requests for disbursement submitted to the Bank will be accompanied by bank statements of both
the special and operational accounts in order to document the timely transfer of resources.
Procedures for loan disbursements are summarized in below under "Disbursements".
133



Counterpart. As it was agreed in the Education Reform Project (Loan 4320-ES), the USEFI
would, until the completion of the Project, operate and maintain a revolving fund with a quartcrly
balance equivalent to the counterpart funding requirements for the next three months of p -oject
activities as provided in the annual budget.
The revolving fund will be used to issue checks or transfers to the providers of goods and services,
in accordance with the counterpart financing percentages agreed.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made vith
consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting!
monitoring systems. The project accounting system will have the capacity to record assei i.
liabilities and financial transactions of the project, and produce financial statements usef: I to
project management and meeting IBRD's fiduciary requirements.
Segregation of duties. The USEFI will channel financial transactions through the organizational
structure and procedures established in the norms to the Ley AFI and computerized via the
Integrated Financial Management System (SAFI). Said procedures support an adequate s zgregation
of procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities.
Budgeting. The loan agreement and cost tables will be the main input for the project buc gets 1 hc
MOI-I will establish a budgetarv unit (Unidad Presupuestaria) for the USEFI. Followilng ocal
requirements, the USEFI would prepare at least:
*  The annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/objectives, physical and fi lancial
programs:
  the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds, the summarized and detailed e;: enditures
by major areas, accounts, and specific objects;
*  after approval by Congress: the budget execution program (PEP) broken down monthly, .And
the quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorization (DACP);
*  the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 5 days after the .rnd cf each
month; and
*  the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 10 davs alter the
end of the quarter.
Payments and operation of bank accounts. Before payments for acquisition of goods and
services can be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. On the basis of these documents,
budget commitments (Previsi6n Presupuestaria) are issued, provided that there&s available buclget.
After the vouchers received are matched with the authorized budget commitment, the t. SEFH
Treasurer will prepare the detailed fund requirement on a weekly basis. The requiremer. is
submitted via the UFI to the DGT, which deposits the funds in the MOH's institutional account.
The UFI immediately transfers the funds to the USEFI's operational bank account.
IThe payments -by check or transfer- will be processed by SAFI against the recorded votichexs. Thlle
checks will contain two signatures: the Treasurer and the Coordinator or Financial Manager.
Payments will be delivered against the voucher receipt form (Quedan) that is given to each
provider.
Bank account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and will be
Available within 8 days after the end of the month.
134



Accounting. Accounting and budgetary records will be maintained in accordance with the GOES'
procedures and system (SAFI). However, for Bank monitoring purposes the USEFI needs to report
on certain infornation not handled by SAFI at project level, specifically the deposits to the special
account and the expenditures classified by subcomponent and disbursement category.
The USEFI will design and operate a chart of linkages between the budgetary unit's chart of
accounts and the subcomponent/disbursement categories of the loan agreement.
Accounting documentation will be filed by the USEFI and maintained for a minimum of five years.
Policies and procedures. As Government unit, the USEFI will function in accordance with the
Ley AFI and all related norms and procedures. Specific aspects of the management of IBRD loan
funds will be documented in the financial management section of the Operational Manual.
Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody of the respective
institutional departments of the MOH. For the proposed project, the USEFI will keep detailed
subsidiary records of plant and equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be reconciled
monthly against the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection will be
undertaken by USEFI staff, preferably with the participation of staff from MOH's Asset
Management Unit and the external auditors.
Internal Audit
The USEFI will be subject to review by the MOH's Internal Audit Department and the country's
supreme audit institution (Corte de Cuentas). Although no internal auditor will be assigned
specifically to the project, the external auditors will perform visits on a quarterly basis (see next
section).
External Audit
Audit compliance. As of the date of appraisal, there was only one project with an overdue audit
report in the country portfolio. No audit compliance issues relevant to the proposed project have
been identified.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of
reference (TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. In addition to the audit opinions on project financial
statements, Special Account and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), special purpose reports will
be required to deal specifically with: (i) observance of the procurement and consultants services
provisions of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) physical inspection of the reconstruction/ rehabilitation
works.
The memorandum on internal controls ("management letter") and the special reports mentioned
above will be issued on a quarterly basis.
The tJSEFI will appoint the auditors prior to loan effectiveness, with an annual contract to be
renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year.
The USEFI will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and recommendations
contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be communicated to
the Bank.
135



The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report               Due Date
Project financial statements   6 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides with CY)
SOE                        same as above
Special Accounts           same as above
Special purpose            2 months after the end of each quarter              _
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and IBRD's
monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
SAFI will be used for producing the budgetary unit's balance sheet, statement of economic:
performance, flow of funds, and budgetary execution. This information must be made availtable by
the USEFI within 10 days after the end of the month.
On a quarterly basis (at least), the USEFI will prepare the project's Statement of Sources arid Uses
of Funds, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing s: urce.
subcomponent and disbursement category. The expenditures would be compared to the pro jected
figures per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated in the Budgeting section above.
In addition to the Statements of Sources and Uses of Funds, the quarterly financial reports wvill
include the Special Account Reconciliation Statement. Any difference in the amount of
expenditures reported under the two financial statements must be clearly explained. The project
financial statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the Pro ject
Monitoring Reports (PMRs), will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of
the reporting quarter. For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include, as well, the
schedule of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal
Applications.
Information Systems
As described previously, SAFI will be used for keeping the project's project budgeting, treasury
and accounting records, but some additions are needed in order to produce the financial statements
required specifically for Bank monitoring purposes.
Strengths and Weaknesses
In SAFI, the MOH has a sound financial management system. However, its contributions .o the
project's implementation and monitoring will be in effect when qualified staff are assigneci to the
project, the USEFI is properly established under the organizational arrangements describec'
previously, and arrangements for producing certain information relevant to the Bank are in place.
The Action Plan (below) aims at addressing these issues.
136



Financial Management Action Plan
Action                         Responsible Entity             Comrletion Date
1. Establish the USEFI:        MOH                            Before effectiveness
legalization, staffing, office,
equipment and software.
2. Set up the CMF's contract   CMF                            Before effectiveness
management system.
3. Approve the budgetaiy unit in   MOH/MOF                    Before effectiveness/
the National Budget.                                           Before commencement of each
year of project implementation
4. Establish the counterpart   MOH/MOF                        Before effectiveness
revolving fund and deposit first
quarterly quota.
5. Set up the system to classify  MOH                         Before effectiveness
SAFI's information by project
disbursement categories and
subcomponents.
6. Establish a subsidiary register   MOH                      Ongoing through project
of assets acquired by the project,                            implementation
and reconcile on a monthly basis
the total cost shown by the
register with the respective
accounting balances.
7. Perform physical inventories,   MOH, with the participation of    Ongoing through project
at least annually, of the project's  the external auditors    implementation
register of assets.
8. Finalize financial management  MOH                         Before effectiveness
section of the Operational Manual
9. Submit audit TORs and short   MOH/WB                        Before effectiveness
list of firms for approval
10. Appoint the external auditors   MOH                       Before effectiveness
I l. Submit draft Project      MOH                            Before effectiveness
Monitoring Reports (PMRs).
12. Submit first PMRs          MOH                            45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness
________________________________ =_______________._______________ takes place
Supervision Plan
A financial management supervision mission prior to effectiveness is needed. After effectiveness, a
FM Specialist must review the annual audit reports and should perform one supervision mission
per year.
Disbursement Arrangements
Method and allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C). The proposed loan would be disbursed
over an implementation period of about five years; the loan closing date would be April 30, 2007.
Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook (i.e., "traditional" disbursement procedures).
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
137



Table C - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in US$ Million   IFinancing Percentage
i. For Component I                    _                                                             j
fa3 Works                                        60.1            go%0
Ib) Gnods                                        26.7            100% of foreign expenditure-. 8704 ot7
local expenditures
c) incremental Operating Costs                   0.1           50%
(d. Consultants' Services   (excluding     I-     1 2            1000 of foreign expenditure,  870 of
aEudits). including Contract Management                            local expenditures
f?) lechnicai ALidits                            0.8         - 804-
i    Frain ng            _                       0. 2           187%                                 1
--_     _   _ - -   -                           -.  _             _   . ...__ -  _ ----  _   _ _         -.   __ 
l2. 'or Components i. 111 and IV of the                                                                 i
Project
a) Goods                                         0.5            100% of foreign expenditurc,, 8700 of'
local expenditures
(b) Pharmaceuticals and materials
\i/ Component[                      t             31             1100% until aggregate amouri reaches
$1,030,000, 60% until aggrenate
iamount reaches S2,070,000, and 330o
ithereafter
ComponentIll                                  2.0          _100%0 until aggregate amouri reaches
$666,660. 60% until aggrega:e 
amount reaches $1,333,340, *nd !}%
thereafter
(c4 incremiental Operating Costs. other           0 7            50%          _
than under subcategorvy Ic) above
(d, Consu'tants' Services (excluding              6.9            1 00% of foreign expenditure-. 87' e of`0
audits). for Component 11                                           local expenditures
(e) *         > -   - * -- 5   _ __    %   __   _   _ _  - - - - . - - - -   _ __   - .- 
()H~aath Service Providers                      a.O8%
'f3  'raininp f7or Comnponent 11                   07            18700
(g  Conisultanits' Services, training and         4. i           180%
goods (Clomnp. ili C. 
th) Consultants' Services, training and I         s5             80%
goods (Comp. 11 C.2,I
. _ _ _ ._ ___ ___ _ _---0----
Pro4ieot Audits                                 0.15               OO0% until aggregate amou lt reaJhes
$50,000, 60% until aggregaL- armountri
reaches $) 00.000, and 30% ihereafter
4  (joods, consultants' services and                0.4             80%o
trainine for Performance Incentives     ,
13. front-End Fee (10/o) _     __                   1.4            1100%
6. Unallocated                                      12.8
Fotal Proceeds:                                    142.6           1_                 _
Incremental Operational Costs includes maintenance of office equipment. phone, fax. email, water. -lectricitv
and office supplies. Health service provider fees cover: salaries, supplies. minor equipment, pharrni ceuticals
and transportation. No food is included.
138



Profile of Disbursements
Table D
Period        Disbursement   Cumulative
Estimate    Disbursement        %
FY2002               March-June 2002        5.1           5.1            4%
FY 2003            June 2002- June 2003    23.2           28.3           20%
FY 2004            July 2003-June 2004     54.5           82.8           58%
FY 2005            July 2004-June 2005     42.8           125.6          88%
FY 2006            July 2005-June 2006      12.8          138.3          97%
FY 2007             July 2004-Feb. 2007     4.2           142.6          100%
Retroactive financing. Eligible expenditures can be financed for a maximum of US$14.0
millionoan retroactive up to 12 months before the loan signing date but after September 24, 2001.
Cost Sharing Issue: Please refer to section E.4. for details.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the GOES would establish, maintain and
operate a Special Account to be opened in US Dollars at the Central Bank.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the loan (under no
circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterpart). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank accounts will
only be pernitted to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of less than 30 days.
Total advances to the Special Account at any given time would not exceed the "authorized
allocation" specified in the Loan Agreement.
For replenishment of the advance, the USEFI will prepare monthly (in any case, no more than
quarterly) requests for reimbursement of expenditures made.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Loan withdrawal applications can be supported by
SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review (see
Table B). Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full
supporting documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the MOH at least until one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made.
Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors and Bank staff.
Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the Bank's approval, payments
may be made: (i) directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works, and services;
(ii) to a procurement agent; or (iii) to a commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank
Special Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.
139



Annex 6a: Proposed Organizational Chart MOH/World Bank
Ministry
Technical & Financial
Auditing Firm (TFAF)
Infrastructure                      Project Coordination
Executing Unit                           Unit (PCU)
(IEU)                            Components II & III           EvaMutior Unit
Construction
Management
Firm (CMF)
Financial Mgmt. &
Procurement                  Component II           Component II
Sub-unit
Construction
Firmns
140



Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
El Salvador: Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension Project
Project Schedule                                Plannei d             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12/2000               12/2000
First Bank mission (identification)             09/22/1999           9/22/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     9/16/2001            9/24/2001
Negotiations                                    9/23/2001            10/12/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/30/2001
Prepared by: [name of Government agency]
Preparation assistance:
PHRD TF025836 Social Sector Reform Program
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                  7                   Specialty
Gerard La Forgia        X X              t Co-Task Manager
| Sandra Rosenhouse                        Co-Task Manager
| Willy De Geyndt                          Consultant
| Jaime Roman                              Lead Procurement Specialist
Maria Lucy Giraldo                         Sr. Procurement Specialist
Rosita Estrada                             Procurement and Implementation Specialist
Martin Ochoa                               Consultant
Sonia Levere                               Program Assistant
Marta Molares-Halberg                      Legal Counsel
Manuel Vargas                              Financial Management Specialist
C. M6nica Rojas de Amez                    Disbursement Officer
Maureen Lewis                              Peer Reviewer
Adam Wagstaff                              Peer Reviewer
Kees Kostermans                            Peer Reviewer
Juan Quintero                              Lead Environmental Specialist
Charles Griffin                            Sector Manager
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                      Central America Country Director
Helena Ribe                                Sector Leader
Suzana Augusto                             Lead Operations Officer
Maria Valeria Pena                         Lead Sociologist
141



Annex 8: Documents in Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Assessment. Report: World Bank - LCR Financial Management Tearl (LCOAA).
"El Salvador - Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and Health Services Extension
Project: Financial Management Assessment Report" October 5, 2001
Technical . Action Plans by Subcomponents
Procurement Assessment. -Plan de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones
Environmental Assessment
*  Environmental Assessment Report
*  Ley del Medio Ambiente
*  Leyes relacionadas al Medio Ambiente
*  Reglamento Aguas Residuales
*  Reglamento Desechos peligrosos
*  Reglamento General
C. Other
I.Sistemas Basicos de Salud Integral (SIBASI). El Salvador
2.Modelo del Sistema Inegrado de Mantenimiento para los SIBASI. Ministerio de "alud El
Salvador
3.Encuesta de actividades y Recursos de los Hospitales Publicos de El Salvador. OP'S
4.Terremoto Fisico y Social. La cooperaci6n t6cnica en Salud de la OPS-OMS duraiite los
terremotos de principios del 2001 en el Salvador
5.lnforme Danos observados en los hospitales de la Red Asistencial de Salud de El Salvador en el
terremoto del 13 de enero del 2001. Centro Colaborador de la OPS/OMS, Chile
6.Analisis Fisico Funcional de los hospitales. Propuesta de Acciones. OPS
7.Definici6n de la misi6n de la estrategia de la gerencia de Salud Ambiental y Preparacion de un
Plan de Acci6n con programas y proyeetos especificos. Ministerio de Salud de El Salvador
8.Estudio Preliminar de los Costsos de reparaci6n de la Red Hospitalaria de El Salxador. Banco
Mundial
9.1nforme de la reuni6n del Grupo Consultivo para la Reconstrucci6n de El Salvador. BID
*Including electronic files.
142



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
)f Date 09/101
Closed Projects         26
IBRD/IDA-
Total Disbursed (Active)           168.30
of which has been repaid      11.07
Total Disbursed (Closed)           461.70
otwhich has been repaid       336.00
Total Disbursed (Active . Closed)  629.98
of which has been repaid      347 06
Total Undisbursed (Active)         183.73
Total Undisbursed (Closed)         0 00
Total Undisbursed (Active * Closed)  183.73
Last PSR                                                 Expected and Actual
SPN Rating        Orilgnal Amount In USS Millions          Disbursements'
ProjectID                         Project Name                   DO    P    FY       IBRD  IDA  GRANT Cancel. Undisb.   Ortig.   Frm Revid
P007167                           AG SCTR REFORM & INV - PRIS. S       S   1993        40    0        0       0       5 5     5 S          1.5
P040824                           COMPETITIVENESS ENHA          S      S   1996        16    0        0       0      6.2      62            0
P007173                           ENERGY SECTOR MODERNIZAI S           S   1996        65    0        0      23      15 1    381          365
P007174                           LANDADMINISTRATION            S      S   1996        50    0        0       0    26.6    22.8           22.1
P007164                           SV PUBLIC SECTOR MODERN  S           S   1997        24    0        0       0      131     13.1           0
P007169                           SV- BASIC EDUCATION           HS    HS   1996        34    0        0       0       0.3     0.3           0
P050612                           SV- EDUCATION REFORM         S       S   1998        88    0        0        0    73.7      67            0
P041680                           SV/SECONDARY EDUCATION   S           S   1998        58    0        0        0    43 2    38 2            0
Overall result                                                              Result    375    0        0       23    1837   191.3          601
143



CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for El Salvador
El Salvador
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 7/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 AFP Crecer           0     1.2     0     0      0   0.78      0     0
1997/00      CESSA                0   0.37      0      0     0   0.37      0     0
1998 CUSCATLAN           25      0      0     0   25        0      0     0
1998 SEF Baterias         2      0      0     0      2      0      0     0
1997/9)      SEF IMACASA          0    0.2      0      0     0    0.2      0     0
1994/96      TELEMOVIL            3      0      0   4.5      3      0      0   4.5
Total Portfolio:         30    1.77      0   4.5   30   1.35       0   4.5
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2001 CAESS/EEO       45000        0     0 75000
Total Pending Commitment:  45000        0     0 75000
144



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
El Salvador at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       El  America   middle-          m
Salvador   & Carib.   Income       Development diamond^
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         6.3        516     2,046                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,990      3,680     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       12.6      1,895     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (I%)                                          2.1       1.6        1.0    I
Labor force (%)                                          3.4       2.3        1.3     GNI                               Gross
per     -         -             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                'capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                 47         75        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 30         30        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               12          9        11    j      Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     74         85        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     21         12        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    97        113       114         -    El Salvador
Male                                                   98         ..       116         -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 96         ..       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000     r        -
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                             3 6       4.8      12.5       13.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 13.3     13.9       16.3       17.0    |
Exports of goods and services/GDP             34.2     18.6       25.1      27.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    14.2       1.2       4.2        1.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    12.3       6.7      14.0       13.8
Current account balance/GDP                    0.0      -7.4      -2.5       -3.7     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          1.0       1.6       1.5        1.9       stings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                25.5     44.7       32.2       32.6     savings            e
Total debt service/exports                     7.5      16.6       7.5        7.1
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..               30.1
Present value of debt/exports                   ..                79.7 7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   0.2      4.7      3.4        2.0        4.3         '-El Salvador
GDP per capita                       -0.8      2.6       1.4       0.0        2.2        ..     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        -3.4     13.4      6.7       15.6        9.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growthof nvestmentand GOP(%       -
(% of GDP)                                                                            40
Agriculture                                   38.0      17.1      10.7       10.1     40
Industry                                      21.9     26.2       29.1      30.2      20
Manufacturing                                16.5     21.7       22.5      234       o
Services                                      40.1     56.6       60.1      59.6    -20       5          97   95   99 oo
Private consumption                           71.8     88.9       85.7       88.0     40
General government consumption                14.0       9.9      10.1       10.2
Imports of goods and services                 33.2     31.2       37.3      42.7                -GD1          _GDP
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)Grwhoexrtanimrs
Agricuture                                    -1.1       1.3       6.9       -0.8    301
Industry                                       0.1      5.3        3.4        3.4    20
Manufacturing                               -0.2       5.3        3.7       4.5
Services                                       0.7       5.4       2.7        1.9    10
Private consumption                            0.8      5.1        3.9        3.6     o5 -                     98 . A0
General govemment consumption                  0.1      3.0        2.8        0.3   .10
Gross domestic investment                      2.2      7.1       -5.6        5.3            -     Exports   Imports
Imports of goods and services                  0.4     11.3        2.7       14.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
145



71 Salvador
PRICES ana GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1980      1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
`% ch1ange)                                                                             1
Consumer prices                                 17.4     241          0.5       23          o     _
implicit GDP deflator                          17.0      22.5        0.5       4 0
Government finance
GD% of 5P includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                      112       11.3              95    96    97    ;        9    Q0
Current budget balance                                                0 1      -0.4                   GDP deflator     C
Cverall surplus/deficit                                              -2 4      -3.0     -
TRADE
(UAS$ mni/hons)                                1980      1990       1999      2000       Export and import levels (USa nill.)
otal exports (fob,                                       582      1,190      1,356     5,o0o
Coffee                                                  260        245        298
Cotto:i                                                   20         37        40     4,000
Manufactures                                            173        568        621     3,000
Iota! imports (cif)                                      1,262      3,192     3,873     2,00 E0
Food                                                    361   837  1,041                                         JJJ
Fuel and energy                                         122         115       211      1,000.
Capita! 0oo0s                                           235        816        961
Export price index (1995=100)                              73         49        47             9    95   96   97   38   9)   Q0
Import price iltdex (1995=100)                             88         80        87                  ti Exports        n mpobrt
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  83         61         54
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999       2000
/USS mifions)                                                                            Current account balance to G[ IP (%)
Expo1ts of goods and services                  1,252      861      3,135      3,646      2
Imports of goods and services                  1.187    1.462      4,651      5,642
Resource balance                                 66      -601      -1,516    -1,997      Q
Net income                                       -84     -102        -331      -289
Net current trarsfers                             17      345       1,529     1 801      2
C u rrent account balance                         -1     -358        -317      -484          I
-4
-inancing items (net)                          -246       475        519       435
Changes in net reserves                         246      -117       -202        49       6
Memo:
Rieserves inciuding qoid 'c US5m ilons)                   399      2,004      1,922
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 2        7 6         8 8       8.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999       2000
LJS$ rnillions)                                                                          Composition of 2000 debt (USi$ mill.)
'otal debt outstanding and disbursed            911    2,148       4,014      4,306
!BRD                                           67       140        293       309                           h 309
IDA                                            27        23         17        16
Tootal debt service                              96       208        353       389
B891                                           1 0       29         37        4 1
l!DA                                            0                    1          1
Composition o net resource flows
Official grants                                31       160         95        28                                         ) 1542
Official creditors                             73       -17         54        56
Private creditors                               1         6        129       218
Foreiqn direct investment                       6         2        231       221             F 728
Portfoiio equity                                0         0          0         0                         E 574
WoAod BanK program
Commitments                                     0         0          0         0       A - BRD                       E - e lateral
Disbursements                                  13         3         23        34       B- IDA    3 -Other muitilatera   F - ivate
Principal repayments                            3        16         18         18      C - iMF                       G - ShDrt-term
Net flows                                      10       -13          6        16
Interest payments                               7        14         21        24
Net transfers                                   3       -28        -15         -8
Developrment Economics                                                                                                       9;13/01
146



MAP SECTION






IRED 2727-3
90 ST                                       80- 30'                                                   8950                                                       8830                                                      88. 00 J-
T. 5M8-                                                                                                E L SALVADOR
T. Pu- 8-- ~       ~            ~            '.
o  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
I"          Ig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~         ~          ~          ~          ~          ~                   0 ~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
2  (   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
-PAVED ROADS
GUATEMALA                                 TT         - D c,".IOT,'    I                                                                                                                                               SECONDARY ROADS
Z--                                                                                                                                    I~~~~N~A                       AILROADS
Elk N  - -Me            0                                                               MAINPOT
Ti.S     V  oi                                                                                      RIVERS
C.-,,66  C  H  A T E N                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
~~~~ A   S    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CZ ""INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
MVc~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~ *.-   AI-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL4~~~~~~~~~~~HA-~~~~~~~~~~~' N                                                                                                         
,NITTS STATES 09 AMERICA                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 "-S    -i
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ME-CO3'lLIR  8$MA  
WI                                                        RSONMONATE
L A
ERAZIL  8938                                       R8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               88~~~     T                                                                                 
Ji,, 1,c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ADST19



