Report No. 23345
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/07/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: EL SALVADOR     Project ID: P067986
Project: SV - EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY REC. & HEALTH SERVICES EXTENSION
PROJECT         Task Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse
Appraisal Date: September 19, 2001       IBRD Amount ($m): 142.60
Board Date: December 4, 2001     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHH     Sector: HY - Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)         Status: LEND
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project seeks to restore hospital operations and minimize
losses in health status to vulnerable populations living in the country's
earthquake-damaged Central and Para-Central Regions and to improve the
health status of underserved populations elsewhere, with special emphasis
on the poverty-stricken Northern Region. This will be achieved by: (i)
rebuilding and improving health sector infrastructure damaged or destroyed
by the earthquakes; (ii) extending the coverage of essential health and
nutrition services through a community-based outreach approach; and (iii)
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
to develop and implement policies and priority programs for the health
sector.
I.A.3. Project Description:
(See Annex 2 for a detailed description of project components; Annex 2a
for a detailed description, an analysis, and recommendations relevant to
Component I of the Emergency Reconstruction of MOH Hospital Network in
Earthquake-affected Areas; and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown). The
total costs of the project are US$165.7 million. The project's main
objectives are to: (a) reconstruct and improve health sector
infrastructure damaged or destroyed by the earthquakes; (b) extend the
coverage of health and nutrition services; and (c) strengthen the
institutional capacity of MOH to develop and implement policies and
priority programs for the health sector. To meet these objectives, the
project supports activities in four components.
At the time the earthquakes struck El Salvador, preparation work for
proposed assistance in the health sector was well advanced. Because of
the devastating impact of new earthquakes on health sector infrastructure,
the government requested that the Bank's emergency assistance be
concentrated on support for reconstructing and rehabilitating this
infrastructure, while still focusing on the key priorities of expanding
access to basic health and nutrition services and improving the quality of
service provided to poorer groups. Several lending options were
considered (Section D, Project Rationale), but the government felt that a
single project addressing health sector priorities was most appropriate.
Hence, the proposed project comprises several separate but interrelated
investment components: Component I: Emergency Reconstruction of MOH
Hospital Network in Earthquake-affected Areas and Component II:
Strengthening Essential Health and Nutrition Services in
Earthquake-affected and Extremely Poor Areas. The project will also
support institutional development through Component III: MOH Institutional



Development for Policy Formation, National Priority Programs, and Support
Systems and Component IV: Project Management.
Project Components:
Components:
I. Emergency Reconstruction
II. Health and Nutrition Coverage
III.MOH's Institutional Development
IV.Project Management, M&E
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented in the Central and Northern Zones of El
Salvador. The Central Zone suffered most of the impact of the recent
earthquakes, and the Northern Zone has the highest poverty levels in the
country, and has received minimal investment in infrastructure and
services in the last decades. It is expected that about 3.0 million people
will benefit from the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the 7
hospitals, and 350,000 low income Salvadorans will benefit from the basic
health services extension.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
- 2-



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project involves large scale infrastructure and civil works, some of
them in urban congested areas. It is expected that some significant
environmental impacts might occur during project construction and
operation, which could be dealt through environmental management plans. As
part of the appraisal mission, field visits to proposed relocation sites
showed the need to resettle a few number of houses and public temporary
infrastructure.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
A comprehensive Environmental Action Plan, including a framework for
resettlement was designed and discussed with GOES counterpart officials as
part of appraisal. The EAP aims at: (i) (i) strengthening the
environmental capacity of MOH and MARN (Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources) to supervise and monitor the construction and operation
of sub projects; (ii) ensure that environmental quality standards for
project design and construction are met; (iii) environmental current
legislation is followed; and (iv) participation of local government and
civil society is strengthened through out the implementation process. The
cost of the EAP is estimated at US $180,000 plus the cost of each
individual action and resettlement plan, which costs will be determined
during the design phase of each subproject. The financing cost of each EAP
will be part of GOES counterpart funding. During appraisal MOH agreed to
present a comprehensive implementation plan including timing and source of
funding.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) aims at (i) identifying those sites
that will be affected due to the construction of relocated health centers;
(i) determining socioeconomic and cultural characteristics of those
affected, and the level of impact in their incomes; (iii) identification
of social, economic and cultural impacts associated with the project; and
(iv) description of negotiation and land acquisition mechanisms for
-3 -



resettlement. The formulation of each RAP will ensure proper mechanisms
for consultation with those affected and with local government officials.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      10/3/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Available
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      9/28/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 9/28/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   10/19/2001
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Sandra Rosenhouse        10/10/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         10/25/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Charles C. Griffin       10/25/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec.14,2001\I067986.txt
December 11, 2001 9:47 AM
- 5-



