                                                                                            87583
                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                         EDS2001-0546
                                                                                       November 28, 2001
                                                                                            05:20:25 PM



 Statement by Matthias Meyer
 Date of Meeting: November 29, 2001

El Salvador: Country Assistance Strategy, and Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction and
                           Health Services Extension Project

 Overall, the CAS presents a good analysis of the political, social and economic context in El
 Salvador, including the impact of the two earthquakes and other important developments during
 2001. We welcome the proposed concentration on selected development issues and the
 complementarity with the IDB program. The five planned operations (emergency and health
 care, judicial reform, rural community development, environmental services, land
 administration) respond to urgent needs of the country and correspond to key challenges of the
 current government. We agree that rebuilding social infrastructure is a particularly important
 priority because of its long-term effect on poverty and because of its political relevance (political
 consensus building, fostering societal cohesion). We trust that the Bank will pay due attention
 to the efficient use of its resources. I can therefore endorse this CAS together with the
 proposed lending scenarios. I also support the proposed loan for the "Earthquake
 Reconstruction and Health Services Extension Project".

 I will focus my comments on three areas: the proposed CAS, the consultation process, and
 some economic aspects.

 CAS FY 02 - 04: I welcome the overarching poverty reduction objective of this CAS, aiming at
 contributing to Government's intention to further reduce national poverty to 35-40 percent by
 2005 (Fig. 1). We recognize that the CAS incorporates the lessons of OED's review of previous
 Bank's assistance. Despite the urgency of the reconstruction efforts, it is essential for the
 Salvadorian authorities to sustain macroeconomic stability while addressing the critical factors
 mentioned in para 62. We welcome the intention to mainstream gender aspects into all Bank
 supported operations and encourage authorities and staff to vigorously pursue this objective. I
 agree with the triggers suggested for the low-case scenario as well as with the operational
 indicators to measure the CAS's effectiveness (Box 3 and Annex B1).

 The CAS presents a sound analysis of the competitiveness at the national level. We appreciate
 the individual paragraphs on the activities by the different members of the World Bank Group,
 like WBI, IFC and MIGA, besides IBRD. However, the strategy lacks attention and focus on
 those elements that are particularly important for a more broad based economic development
 and for poverty reduction, i.e. small and medium enterprise development and microfinance.
 The division of labor with IDB with respect to supporting the productive sectors is not clear and
 should be more specific.

 l   The CAS proposes a series of rather isolated activities but lacks a coherent approach. For
                                                                  2



     example, IFC is supporting one company (FUNDAPYME) that provides consulting services
     to SMEs. However, the more strategic question of how to build more sustainable markets
     and enhance demand-orientation with regard to nonfinancial services for SME is not
     addressed.
l    The proposed support of IFC to the regional bank and credit rating agency is an important
     contribution towards restructuring and strengthening of the micro-finance sector. However,
     additional efforts are needed to strengthen the micro-finance sector, because access to
     micro-credit remains mostly limited to the sector of commerce and to departmental capitals.
     Moreover, approaches of different institutions and donors are quite diverse and none of the
     multilateral institutions assumes a clear lead-role. Could the World Bank Group play a
     stronger role in promoting coherence and donor coordination in the micro-finance sector ?
l    Given the fact, that the diagnostic work on business environment as it impacts on SMEs is
     nearly completed, we would have expected a more strategic and coherent approach by the
     Bank with regard to SME development and micro-finance.

We would also have appreciated that the CAS would address issues like:

l    the strengthening of the national disaster prevention and preparedness framework.
l    the impact of this summer's drought that hit small farmers hardest in the eastern part of the
     country; as well as efforts to prevent at least 50,000 people from facing food shortages and
     malnutrition this year need to be strengthened.
l    ways to reduce corruption, which is on the rise; the weakness of the judicial system, its
     incapacity to contain the severe security problem and the related growing corruption in the
     police and prison administration.
l    reforms in the banking sector; lack of efficiency is a major problem in El Salvador’s smaller
     banks, particularly as demand for credit has slowed. Agriculture has also suffered from
     banks’ unwillingness to grant credit to small producers.


CAS consultation process: The CAS consultation process was more participatory compared
to the last one and quite innovative in terms of methods used. We commend staff for the frank
analysis (annex F) with respect to the quality of the consultation process (need to improve
transparency, clarity of communication) and expect that lessons learnt will be applied in the
future.

The consultation process with stakeholders highlighted important areas where differences
remain, such as privatization or concessioning of public services, dollarization, timing and
strategy for decentralization. These differences concern fundamental issues of the
development process in El Salvador and should not be underestimated in the context of the
very polarized Salvadorian society. The CAS does not present a convincing strategy for
dealing with these differences. The CAS only suggests the "need for strong ownership based
on up-front consensus for reform" and "close consultation with the legislature from the earliest
stages of project preparation". This is not enough. The Bank should develop a clear strategy
for dealing with the strongly polarized political situation that will become even more complicated
as the next elections will approach. Pushing important reforms rapidly through parliament
without broad consensus can put the very fragile political balance in danger. The Bank should
seek to foster innovative and transparent consultation processes with different sectors of
society, and support the resumption of the national dialogue process (“plan de nacion”) that was
interrupted subsequent to the earthquakes and because of the controversy around the
dollarization issue.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                  3




Economic issues: The analysis of the economic context is excellent and addresses well the
impacts of recent developments (earthquakes, global economic slow-down, etc.). However, in
two aspects, it seems somewhat optimistic:

l    the external and internal debt is rising rapidly (plus 260% and 460% during 2000 and 2001
     respectively, source: FUSADES) – albeit from a low basis thanks to a prudent borrowing
     policy in the past. There is a risk that fiscal imbalances increase if this trend continues.
l    the bi-monetary policy already contributed to lower interest rates. However, other positive
     effects in terms of stimulating investment and consumption did not yet materialize. These
     effects may materialize later than expected and only if no further external shocks occur.

Finally, the implementation of the CAS faces substantial risks which need to be carefully
monitored by staff and authorities, in order to be adequately mitigated. We wish the people and
the authorities of El Salvador success in their reconstruction and long term poverty reduction
efforts.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
