Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2870 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4028 CHA
Project Agreement
(Gansu Hexi Corridor Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GANSU PROVINCE
Dated July 2, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2870 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4028 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1996, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
GANSU PROVINCE (Gansu).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-one million eight 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 61,800,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Gansu agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to sixty 
million dollars ($60,000,000) on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Gansu agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(C)
WHEREAS Gansu, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined in the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement, except in Section 5.03 hereof), 
reference to the Association, the
Credit or the Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank, the Loan 
and the Loan Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  Gansu declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, economic, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Gansu shall otherwise agree, Gansu shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Gansu shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation 
thereto, Gansu shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Gansu, a plan 
for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Gansu on 
said plan.
 
Section 2.04. (a) Gansu shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b)
Gansu shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Gansu of its 
Page  3
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Gansu shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of Gansu responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
Gansu shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section  4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Gansu thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their 
terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly
notify Gansu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Gansu:
Gansu Provincial Bureau of Finance
616 West Donggang Road
Lanzhou  730000
China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
2398
72148 FBOGP
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Gansu may be 
taken or executed by any Vice Governor of Gansu or such other person or persons as 
such Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Gansu shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Gansu 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Gansu to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of
such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Gansu shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Harold Messenger
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
Page  5
GANSU PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995
and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section I.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic  contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable 
to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
3.
The following provisions shall apply to works procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 or C.1 of this Section I.
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for works contracts estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each 
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $77,300,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, but not less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Page  6
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, and $50,000 equivalent or 
more, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, and housing materials, and 
production inputs for Part D of the Project, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $45,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant  
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Force Account and Beneficiary Participation
 
Works for land reclamation and preparation, salt leaching, on-farm works, 
ancillary structures, rural and farm roads under Part B(2) of the Project, for water 
and electricity supply systems under Part D(1) thereof and for afforestation under 
Part E thereof, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $48,900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines or by the use of Project beneficiaries hired in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more and to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  7
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall 
be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts  for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said 
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference 
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments 
of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Gansu shall at all 
times maintain, with terms of reference, composition, and resources acceptable to the 
Association:
1.
a Project management bureau, at the provincial level, to be responsible for the 
overall management of Project implementation;
2.
a panel of experts to be responsible for providing technical advice to the PMB;
 
3.
a consultative committee of local government representatives at each of the 
prefectural, township, city and county levels to be responsible for consulting with 
the PMB on implementation of the land settlement program under Part D of the Project 
and for ensuring full involvement of the local governmental authorities in said 
program;
4.
a settlement advisory and coordination committee, to be responsible for 
providing advice to the PMB on the detailed planning, design and implementation of the 
land settlement program under Part D of the Project and for ensuring full 
participation of Settlers and existing residents in the Irrigation Areas in such 
design and implementation;
5.
a county emigration and settlement leading group in each county from which 
Settlers will emigrate under Part D of the Project, chaired by the county chief or a 
deputy county chief and comprising the heads of the township emigration and settlement 
leading groups, to be responsible for the planning and oversight of the implementation 
of the settlement program under said Part D, as well as of the rehabilitation and 
restoration of environmentally degraded areas in its county after the emigration of 
the Settlers; and
6.
a Project implementation leading group at each of the city, county and state 
farm levels, to be responsible for oversight of Project implementation at its level.
B.
Annual Programs
 
Gansu shall:
Page  8
1.
prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than November 30 in each calendar year, a proposed work program 
for the implementation of the Project (including the Voluntary Land Settlement Plan) 
during the following calendar year (including a proposed budget therefor); and
2.
thereafter, implement such work program during such following year as shall have 
been approved by the Association.
C.
Environmental Action Plan
 
In order to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
health, safety and environmental standards, Gansu shall take all measures necessary to 
carry out the Project in accordance with an environmental action plan acceptable to 
the Association.
D.
Part A of the Project  (Changma Dam)
 
Dam Safety
1.
In order to ensure the safety of the existing Shuang Ta and Che Jinxia dams in 
the Irrigation Areas and their associated structures (Existing Dams) and the dam to be 
constructed under Part A of the
Project and its associated structures (Changma Dam), Gansu shall take the following 
actions:
(a)
Gansu shall undertake, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and complete, not later than December 31, 1998, a program of remedial 
works on the Existing Dams.
(b)
Gansu shall continue to employ one or more panel of experts, with 
membership, terms of reference and resources acceptable to the Association (the 
Panel), to be responsible for reviewing the
adequacy of the design and construction of the Changma Dam and the adequacy of 
remedial works to be carried out on the Existing Dams and for periodic inspections of 
the Changma Dam and the Existing Dams.
(c)
Gansu shall ensure that the Panel shall, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association:
(i)
undertake periodic reviews of the Changma Dam and the design 
thereof, throughout 
the period of construction thereof and 
of the Existing Dams during the period in 
which remedial works 
thereon are being carried out; and
(ii)
prepare and furnish to Gansu and the Association, upon completion 
of each said 
review, a report of the results of said review, 
together with any recommended 
changes to be introduced into the 
design or construction of the Changma Dam or the 
Existing Dams.
 
(d)
Promptly upon receipt of each report furnished by the Panel to Gansu, 
Gansu shall introduce the changes recommended by said report, taking into account the 
comments of the Association on the matter.
(e)
Gansu shall:
 
(i)
ensure that the Changma Dam and the Existing Dams shall be 
inspected by the Panel 
in accordance with sound engineering 
practices at intervals and under arrangements 
acceptable to the 
Association, in order to identify any deficiencies in the 
condition of the Changma Dam or the Existing Dams, or in the quality and adequacy 
of the maintenance or methods of operation thereof, which may 
endanger the safety 
of the Changma Dam or the Existing Dams, 
and promptly rectify any such 
deficiencies; and
 
(ii)
to this end, prepare and furnish to the Association, appropriate 
arrangements for 
said inspection not later than one year prior 
Page  9
to the planned completion of Changma 
Dam and thereafter, promptly 
implement said arrangements, taking into account the 
views of the 
Association on the matter.
Resettlement
2.
Gansu shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that all 
persons displaced as a result of Part A of the Project shall be resettled in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan so as to restore or improve the living 
standards and productivity of such persons.
E.
Part D of the Project (Land Settlement)
 
1.
Gansu shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the emigration of all 
Settlers to the Irrigation Areas shall be implemented on a voluntary basis and in a 
manner designed to improve their living standards and productivity. To this end, Gansu 
shall:
(a)
carry out the emigration of the Settlers in accordance with the Voluntary 
Land Settlement Plan;
(b)
lease to each of the Settlers, under arrangements acceptable to the 
Association, including a written lease agreement:
(i)
0.13 hectares of land in the Irrigation Areas for purposes of 
cultivation, on terms 
whereby said land shall be leased to the 
Settlers for a duration of at least thirty 
(30) years on a rent-free 
basis; and
(ii)
up to an additional 0.13 hectares of land in the Irrigation Areas 
for a duration of 
at least 10 years on a rent-paying basis, with an 
option to renew.
2.
Gansu shall establish, not later than December 31, 1996, and thereafter operate 
the credit facility included in Part D(4) of the Project under arrangements acceptable 
to the Association.
F.
Part E of the Project (Afforestation)
 
Gansu shall take all measures necessary to ensure that by December 31, 1998 and 
at all times thereafter, the forest area referred to in Part E of the Project shall be 
properly protected and  maintained under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
G.
Part F of the Project (Institutional Development)
 
Gansu shall carry out the training program included in Part F of the Project in 
accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association.
H.
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Areas
 
1.
In order to ensure the proper planning, development and management of water 
resources of the Shule River Basin in Gansu, Gansu shall:
(a)
establish and operate, a water resources management bureau not later than 
December 31, 1998, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to 
the Association;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 1999, a plan for the operation 
and maintenance of the Irrigation Areas; and
(c)
thereafter, implement such plan with due diligence, taking into account 
the comments of the Association on the matter.
2.
(a)
In furtherance of its policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation 
and maintenance of the irrigation facilities included in the Irrigation Areas, 
including those constructed under the Project, from the users of the water delivered 
Page  10
through said facilities, taking into account the need to provide incentives to 
encourage the efficient use of water and to relate the charges on the users thereof to 
their ability to pay and income levels, Gansu shall, promptly upon completion of said 
facilities, through the bureau referred to in Part H.1 above, establish and collect 
from said users, water charges sufficient to cover (i) the operation and maintenance 
costs of said facilities as they are incurred and (ii) the cost of replacement of 
structures, equipment and installations in respect of said facilities.
(b)
To that end, Gansu shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than December 31, 1999, the proposed schedule of such water charges to be established 
and collected, together with any information pertaining thereto that the Association 
may reasonably request, and thereafter promptly introduce such schedule taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon.
(c)
Gansu shall review and adjust the above charges in consultation with the 
Association, at regular intervals not exceeding five years each so as to continue to 
give effect to the provisions of
paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Gansu shall maintain a separate accounting for funds collected pursuant 
to the provisions of the above paragraphs and cause all said funds to be used 
exclusively for the purposes specified
therein.
I.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
Gansu shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
carrying out of the Project, including the
Environmental Action Plan, the Voluntary Land Settlement Plan and the Resettlement 
Action Plan, and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Gansu shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, (a) semiannual reports, not later than January 31 and July 
31 in each calendar year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Part I.1 of this Schedule during the preceding 
calendar semester in respect of the Project as a whole, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the then current calendar semester, (b) annual reports, 
not later than
March 31 in each calendar year, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to Part I.1 of this Schedule during the 
preceding calendar year in respect of the Environmental Action Plan, the Voluntary 
Land Settlement Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan, and setting out any revisions 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities to said plans and (c)  two 
interim assessment reports, one not later than  January 31, 2000 and the other not 
later than January 31, 2003, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Part I.1 of this Schedule during the period preceding 
the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date.
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in Part I.2 of this Schedule, Gansu 
shall review the same with the Association, and promptly take all measures required to 
ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Association's views on the matter, and (if applicable) introduce all such 
revisions to the Environmental Action Plan, the Voluntary Land Settlement Plan and the 
Resettlement Action Plan as shall have been agreed with the Association.
