Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2870 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Gansu Hexi Corridor Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 2, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2870 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to sixty-million dollars ($60,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Gansu (as defined in Section 1.02(b) 
of this Agreement) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Gansu the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
Page  2
the Bank and Gansu; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental action plan referred 
to in Part C of  Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(b)
"Gansu" means the Borrower's Province of Gansu. 
 
(c)
"Irrigation Areas" means the Shuang Ta, Chang Ma and Hua Hai irrigation 
areas of Gansu.
(d)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to such 
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(e)
"PMB" means the Project management bureau referred to in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Gansu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(g)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means (i) the Report on Resettlement Program 
of Changma Reservoir and Resettlement Implementation Plan of the Changma Reservoir, 
both dated October 1995, and prepared by the Gansu Surveying and Designing Institute 
of Water Conservancy and Electricity, and (ii) the letters dated February 18, 1996 and 
March 18, 1996 from Gansu to the Association relating to additional measures to ensure 
the improvement of the productive capacity and income levels of the persons resettled 
under the Project.
(h)
"Settlers" means all persons who emigrate to, and settle in, the 
Irrigation Areas pursuant to the voluntary emigration program included in Part D of 
the Project.
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
Page  3
(j)
"Voluntary Land Settlement Plan" means (i) the Report on Implementation 
of In-Migration Settlement and its Appendix, both dated October 1995 and prepared by 
the Gansu Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau, Gansu World Bank Loan Project 
Implementation Office, Construction Administration Bureau of Comprehensive Development 
Project of Hexi Corridor (Shule River), Agriculture, Irrigation and Resettlement 
Bureau (CAB) and Northwest Demographic Research Institute of Lanzhou University, and 
(ii) the Migrant Notice dated February 1996 and prepared by CAB.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-one million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 61,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June  30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2006 and ending January 15, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Gansu to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of  Gansu therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gansu to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall  make the proceeds of the Credit available to Gansu on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
The principal amount so made available:  (A) shall be the 
equivalent in terms of 
Special Drawing Rights (determined on 
the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Credit 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn; 
and (B) shall be recovered by the Borrower in a currency selected by the Borrower 
in an amount equal to the equivalent (determined as of the date or 
respective dates 
of repayment) of the amount referred to in 
sub-paragraph (A) above.
(ii)
The Borrower shall recover from Gansu the principal amount 
referred to in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of this Section over a period of 
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of seven years.
 
(iii)
The Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount 
referred to in paragraph 
(b)(i)(B) of this Section and withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the service 
charge applicable to the Credit pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(iv)
The Borrower shall charge a commitment fee on the principal amount 
referred to in 
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal to 
one half of one percent (0.5%) 
per annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Gansu on 
Page  5
the following principal terms:
(i)
The principal amount so made available shall be denominated and 
recovered in 
Dollars.
 
(ii)
The Borrower shall recover from Gansu the principal amount 
referred to in paragraph 
(c)(i) of this Section over a period of  
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five 
years.
(iii)
The Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amount 
referred to in paragraph 
(c)(i) of this Section and withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement.
(iv)
The Borrower shall charge a commitment fee on the principal amount 
referred to in 
paragraph (c)(i) of this Section not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal to 
three fourths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred 
to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) shall be carried out by Gansu pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably  
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Page  6
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Gansu shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Gansu will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01.The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02.The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Gansu, and is legally binding upon Gansu in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:  
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  7
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423  (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145  (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Harold Messenger
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the    Amount of the
                 Credit Allocated   Loan Allocated        % of
                  (Expressed in    (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category          SDR Equivalent)     Dollars)      to be Financed
(1) Works for:
    (a) Parts A,     26,710,000     25,960,000     65%
    B (1), B(3), C
    D(1)(b) and F
    of the Project
    (b) Parts B(2),  18,110,000     17,600,000     45%
Page  8
    D(1)(a) and E
    of the Project
(2) Goods            11,560,000    11,240, 000      100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured
                                                    locally
(3)  Consultants'     3,130,000       3,040,000     100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Operating Costs  2,290,000       2,160,000     80%
                      _________       _________
      TOTAL          61,800,000      60,000,000
                     ==========      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means expenditures for fuel, vehicle and 
equipment maintenance and repair, supplies and materials, and transportation incurred 
by Project entities in their management
of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,430,000 may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each, (b) goods under contracts costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent each, (c) Operating Costs, (d) training, (e) consultants' 
services under contracts awarded to firms and costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each, and (f) consultants' services under contracts awarded to individuals and costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (1) to alleviate poverty of farmers in 
resource-poor areas of  central and southeast Gansu through voluntary emigration of 
such farmers, and settlement by such farmers
in, the Irrigation Areas, (2) to increase agricultural production in Gansu and (3) to 
protect and restore degraded environments in Gansu.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  9
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Changma Dam
 
Construction on the Shule River of  (1) a dam with height of about 55 meters, 
crest length of about 365 meters, zoned earthfill embankment with a clay core, (2) a 
side channel regulated spillway
with discharge capacity of about 1,655 cubic meters per second, (3) a concrete-lined 
diversion tunnel with diameter of about 8 meters and length of about 300 meters, (4) a 
water intake concrete-lined
tunnel with diameter of about 5.5 meters and length of about 500 meters and (5) a 
powerhouse with a total installed capacity of 14.25 megawatts; and resettlement of 
about 570 persons residing and farming
in the vicinity of said dam and its reservoir.
Part B:
Irrigation and Drainage
 
(1)
Upgrading and expansion of irrigation and drainage facilities covering about 
98,000 hectares in the Irrigation Areas, including construction and upgrading of 
trunk, main, sub-main and branch canals and drains, bridges and culverts, tubewells 
and mini-hydro power stations.
(2)
Reclamation and development of about 55,000 hectares of land, including about 
39,000 hectares of saline and salinized soils, in the Irrigation Areas through land 
leveling, salt leaching, construction of on-farm irrigation and drainage systems with 
lateral and sub-lateral canals and drains, ancillary structures and rural and farm 
roads.
(3)
Construction of office facilities and buildings required for the operation and 
maintenance of the Irrigation Areas.
Part C:
Agricultural Development
 
(1)
Development of systems to provide agricultural support to Settlers, consisting 
of:
(a)
construction, equipping and operation of sixteen township agri-machinery 
service stations, including workshop repair facilities and fuel depots;
(b)
expansion of seed production, storage, processing and distribution 
facilities and equipping of a seed analysis laboratory;
(c)
establishment and expansion of extension centers and stations, provision 
of vehicles required for the provision of extension services, and implementation of 
training programs to enhance
the extension skills of staff of these centers and stations; and
(d)
carrying out of on-farm applied research to support agricultural 
production in the Irrigation Areas and provision of equipment required therefor.
(2)
Development of livestock production in the Irrigation Areas through the:
 
(a)
establishment, expansion and equipping of animal husbandry and veterinary 
service centers and stations;
(b)
provision of training to farmers in livestock production techniques;
 
(c)
establishment of livestock production facilities and farms; and
 
(d)
establishment of feed processing and fodder production facilities, and 
pasture seed farms, and development and management of grassland and rangeland.
Part D:
Land Settlement
 
Implementation of a program for the voluntary emigration of about 200,000 people 
living in the poorest counties of central and southeast Gansu and their settlement in 
the Irrigation Areas, so as
Page  10
to reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in Gansu, such program to include the:
(1)
establishment of 16 townships and 160 settlement villages, including provision 
of (a) infrastructure, water and electricity supply systems and utility connections, 
and (b) educational and health facilities;
(2)
allotment of developed land to the Settlers for housing and farming;
 
(3)
provision of relocation services, housing construction materials, fuel, 
agricultural tools and production inputs to Settlers; and
(4)
development and operation of a credit facility to assist Settlers in financing 
the purchase of production inputs and the establishment and operation of rural 
enterprises and family businesses.
Part E:
Afforestation
 
Implementation of a program of afforestation in the Irrigation Areas to protect 
land from wind erosion, enhance eco-environments for crop production and human 
habitation, provide a source of fuel energy for Settlers, and provide for soil and 
water, including:
(1)
the plantation of:  (a) about 240 kilometers of fringe forest belts covering 
about 290 hectares; (b) about 700 kilometers of primary and secondary windbreaks 
covering about 500 hectares; (c) on-farm windbreaks covering about 3,800 hectares; (d) 
fruit trees and orchards covering about 3,333 hectares; (e) a fuelwood forest covering 
about 1,000 hectares; and (f) shrubs and trees in gullies and along eroded river banks 
and slopes of the Shule River at three locations in its catchment area to reduce soil 
erosion; and
(2)
establishment of a protected forest area in Gansu's Qilian mountain range, for 
the catchment area of the dam to be constructed under Part A of the Project.
Part F:
Institutional Development
 
(1)
Development and implementation of a program of training to improve the skills of 
the Project staff in the areas of (a) drainage and water and soil salinity control, 
(b) operation, maintenance and management of the Irrigation Areas, (c) water resources 
monitoring, simulation and dispatch, (d) management of large-scale human settlements 
and (e) optimization of the production of crops, livestock and forestry in arid areas.
(2)
Development of a basin-wide system network for the monitoring, simulation, 
control and dispatch of surface irrigation water integrated with the extraction and 
use of groundwater.
(3)
Development of a basin-wide system for environmental monitoring of land and 
water resources, including monitoring of salinity levels of water in Shuang Ta 
reservoir area of the Irrigation Areas.
(4)
Development of a system for the monitoring and evaluation of the socio-economic 
well being of the Settlers.
(5)
Construction of office facilities for the PMB and county training centers and 
provision of office equipment and vehicles required for Project implementation and 
management.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
Page  11
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of the Development Credit 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
Page  12
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account (as the case may be) for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General 
Conditions applicable thereto.
