The World Bank                                   OfFICIAL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  P  Up r Hill Road  Tel: (254-20) 322 6000 / 400
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            i,                    Fax: (254-20) 322 6380/ 381
March 25, 2013
Hon. Robinson Njeru Githae
Minister of Finance
Treasury, Nairobi
Republic of Kenya
Dear Hon. Githae:
Re: Regional: Southwest Indian Ocean Fisheries Project
(GEF TF Grant No. TF056039)
Retroactive Amendment of Grant Agreement
We refer to the Global Environment Facility ("GEF") Trust Fund Grant Agreement
dated October 9, 2007, as amended to date, (the "Agreement"), between the Republic of
Kenya (the "Recipient") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF (the "Bank") for the above mentioned Project.
We also refer to the need to rectify an omission in the Amendment letter dated December 7,
2011, which should have included revised performance indicators for the Project. Therefore:
Schedule 5 of the Agreement is amended retroactively as follows:
"The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the
performance indicators set forth below:
1. Development of a regionally harmonized strategy for ecosystem-based
management of shared fish stocks in the SWIO adopted by all countries
participating in the Project through strengthening existing regional management
bodies such as the SWIOFC.
2. Adoption by all SWIOFP countries through the SWIOFC of a monitoring and
evaluation framework (including environmental status and stress reduction
indicators) that defines ecosystem.
3. Adoption of at least one national or multi-national plan for a specific demersal,
pelagic or crustacean fisheries by all countries participating in the Project
All the other terms and conditions of the Agreement, as amended hereby, will remain
in full force and effect.


﻿Hon. Robinson Njeru Githae          -2-                    February 20, 2013
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing, dating, and returning to
us one of the enclosed originals of this Amendment. Upon receipt by the Bank of the
original of this Amendment countersigned by you, this Amendment will be effective
retroactively as of the December 7, 2011.
Sincerely,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(acting as an implementing agency of the GEF)
Johannes Zutt
Country Director,
Kenya, Eritrea and Rwanda
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Authorized Representat
Name:   k/I      ' /26814fS'V'j  ILfJ,42          7-A. (I   C, r F$W
Title:  MbtIAI-s 7F4     &v     If7V %6


