                                             Documentof
                                          The WorldBank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 28483-SA




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                   PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE

                         GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUSTFUND

                               INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$9.0MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF SOUTHAFRICA

                                               FORTHE

 C.A.P.E.: BI DIVERSITY CONSERVATIONAND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOP..lENT PROJECT

                                             April 21,2004




Environmental, Ruraland SocialDevelopment AFTSl -
Country Department1,Botswana,Lesotho,Namibia,Swaziland, South Africa AFCOl    -
Africa Region
This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may nototherwise bedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                     (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit =

                                         FISCALYEAR
                                      January 1 -- December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


Definitions:
Biodiversity Economy  The concept ofthe biodiversity economy is that local economic development should
                      be supportedina manner which does not harmbiodiversity and inwhich the
                      managementof biodiversity resources are developedinto economic opportunities
C.A.P.E. Program      The National, 20 year Program: Cape Action for Peopleandthe Environment
CAPE 2000 Strategy     The Cape Action Planfor the Environment, a strategy developedfor the conservation
                       and sustainableuse of the Cape Floristic Region in September 2000
Executive Agency       Eitherthe NBIor any of the three Sub-ExecutingAgencies executing aProject
                       activitv
Implementing Agency    GEF implementing agency (World Bank, UNDP)
The Project            The C.A.P.E. Biodiversity and SustainableDevelopment Project, ie the subject of
                       this Proiect document
Abbreviations:
AB1                    C.A.P.E. Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative
AUSAID                Australian Aid
BCLME                I Benmela Current Laree Marine Ecosvstem
BD                     Biodiversity
BotSoc                 Botanical Society of SouthAfrica
C.A.P.E.               Cape Biodiversity Conservationand SustainableDevelopment Project
CAS                  I Countrv Assistance Stratem
CBD                    Convention on Biodiversity
ccc                    C.A.P.E. Coordination Committee
CEPF                   Critical Ecosvstem PartnershinFund
CIC                  I C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee                                                I
CI-SA                  Conservation International (Southern African Hotspots Program)
CIRAD                  Centre de Cooperation Internationale en RechercheAgronomique pour le



CITES                I Convention on the Intemational Trade in EndangeredSnecies                       7
CPNP                 I Cape PeninsulaNational Park
CPU                  I Conservation Planning Unitof the Western Cape Nature Conservation Board
DANIDA               I Danish Agencv for Develonment Assistance                                         I
DEAET                  Eastem Cape: Department of Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism
DEAT                  National Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
DWAF                  National Denartment of Water Affairs and Forestrv

                                                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


     EIS              Environmental Impact System
     FFI           II Flora andFauna International
     FPA              Fire ProtectionAssociation
     GDP              Gross Domestic Product
     GGP              Gross Geographic Product
     GEF              Global Environmental Facilitv
     GoSA             Government o f South Africa
     GTZ              German Foundation for Technical Cooperation
     IAS              Invasive Alien Soecies
   1 IDP           I  IntegratedDeveloument Plan                                    I


   I M o U         I Memorandum o f Understanding                                   I
     M P A            Marine Protected Area
     NBI              National Botanical Institute
     NGO              Non-Govemmental Organization
     NORAD            NorwegianAgency for Development Cooperation
      OP              Operational Program
     P A            I Protected Area
     PES              Payment for Ecological Services
   I  SANParks      1ISouth African National Parks                                  I
     SDF              Spatial Development Framework
     STEP             Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem Project
     SKEP             Succulent Karoo Ecosystem Program
     THETA            Tourism and Hosuitalitv Education and Training Authoritv
     TMF              Table Mountain Fund
     UNDP             UnitedNations Development Program
   IIUSAID            United States Agencv for International Develooment
     WF             IIWilderness Foundation                                         II
     WCNCB            Western Cape Nature Conservation Board
     WfW              Working for Water Program
   II WMA             Water Management Area
      WSSD          IIWorld Summit on Sustainable Develoument                       II
      WWF-SA          Worldwide Fundfor Nature (South Africa)
      WWF              World Wildlife Fund



                               Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                             Country Director:    Fayez S. Omar
                              Sector Manager:     Richard G. Scobey
                           Task Team Leader:      Christopher J. Warner




This documenthasa restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                           SOUTHAFRICA
     C.A.P.E.: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENT
                                              PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  7
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                        11

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                            14
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies         14
   3. Lessons learnedand reflected inthe project design                                   16
   4. Indications o fborrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                       17
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                              17

E.Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            18
   2. Financial                                                                           19
   3. Technical                                                                           20
   4. Institutional                                                                       21
   5. Environmental                                                                       23
   6. Social                                                                              25
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  26

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                     27
   2. Critical risks                                                     28
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                     30


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                            30
   2. Other Conditions for Negotiation                                   30

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                           31

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                             32



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                          33
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                     41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                         46
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                       47
Annex 5:   Financial Summary                                             55
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                    56
           (B) Financial ManagementandDisbursement Arrangements          63
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                      70
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                    71
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                 73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                            75
Annex 11:Background to the Project Area                                  77
Annex 12: Environmental Threats Analysis                                 80
Annex 13: Socio-economic Assessment                                      87
Annex 14: Descriptiono f the C.A.P.E. Program and Project Linkages       94
Annex 15: ReplicationStrategy                                            105
Annex 16: Role o f Each Agency per Component and Procurement Category    111




MAW)
IBRD32809 Project Area andExtent ofthe Cape Floristic Region
IBRD32865 Unleashing the Potential of ProtectedAreas
IBRD32866 IdentifyingandSecuring Terrestrial Biodiversity inKey Sites
IBRD32867 Integrating Biodiversity Concernsinto WatershedManagement
             --
             --

                                                 SOUTH AFRICA
                      C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservationand Sustainable Development Project
                                       Project Appraisal Document
                                              Africa Regional Office
                                                     AFTS1

Date: April 21,2004                                      Team Leader: Christopher James Warner
Sector ManagerIDirector: Richard G. Scobey               Sector(s): Generalagriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Managermirector: Fayez S. Omar                   (100%)
Project ID: PO75997                                      Theme@): Environmental policies and institutions (P),
Focal Area: B Biodiversity
              -                                          Biodiversity (P), Other environment and natural resources
                                                         management (S)



For LoanslCreditslOthers:




Responsible agency:
National Botanical Institute
Address: Kirstenbosch, Private Bag X7, Claremont, 7735, South Africa
Contact Person: Professor Brian Huntley




                                             Expected closing date: 10/31/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The Project Development Objective is to support the conservation o f the Cape Floristic Region (CFR)
andadjacent marineenvironment by layinga soundfoundation for scaling up andreplicating successful
Project outcomes.

The Project will achieve this through two sub-project objectives (i)
                                                                   laying the foundations for
mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy; and (ii) by undertakingcarefully targetedconservation
demonstrations inselectedbiophysical, socio-economic and institutional contextswith a view to scaling
these up.

The Global Objective i s to ensure that the conservation of Cape Floristic Regionand adjacent marine
environment is securedby 2024.

This goal is derived fromthe Overall C.A.P.E. ProgramGoal which is stated as: "by the year 2024 the
natural environment andbiodiversity ofthe Cape Floristic Regionand adjacent marine environment will be
effectively conserved, restoredwherever appropriate, and will deliver significant benefits to the people ina
way that is embracedby local communities, endorsedby government, andrecognized internationally".

The Project is supportedby the World Bank and the UNDP as described insection C4 of this Project
document.

Background to the Proiect

The C.A.P.E. Biodiversity Conservation and SustainableDevelopment Project (henceforth referredto as
"the Project") is derived from a programofthe Government of South Africa (GoSA). The GoSA has
developed the C.A.P.E. Program to protect the rich biological heritage o fthe CFR (See Map l),    and to
ensure that biodiversity conservation is mainstreamedinto economic development andpoverty alleviation
strategies. The basis for the C.A.P.E. Program was laid by GEF support inSeptember 2000. Inthis
period, the Cape Action Plan for the Environment, referred to as the CAPE 2000 Strategy, was developed.
Itidentifiedthe key ecological patternsandprocesseswhich needto be conservedinthe CFR andthe key
threats androot causes of biodiversity losses. This resultedina spatial plan identifyingthe priority areas
for conservation intervention and a series of systemic program activities to be undertaken inthree phases,
over a 20 year period, to conserve the CFR. A second, Phase 2 application, will be madeto the GEF at the
end of this Project, seeking lower levels of GEF, Bank andUNDP support. Phase 3 will be fhded from
domestic resources. Eachphaseo f the C.A.P.E Program is designedas a relatively discrete element to
generate defined global environmental benefits, as GEF support, whilst key, cannot be guaranteedfor Phase
2. GEFiBank and UNDP support to the first five years o f the C.A.P.E. Program (Phase 1) includes a
Critical EcosystemPartnershipFundallocation for civil society involvement, complemented by the
C.A.P.E. Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative and the subject ofthis application.

The implementation responsibility for the C.A.P.E. Program, and the Project, falls underthe Cape
Coordination Unit(CCU) o f the National BotanicalInstitute (NBI)which is the recipient o fthe Grant. It
will be supportedby three Sub-Executing Agencies including the South African National Parks
(SANF'arks), the Western Cape Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB) and the Wilderness Foundation
(WF).



                                                   - 2 -

Annex 11provides a background to the project area including a description of the area`s biodiversity and
socio-economic context. Annex 14 provides a description o f the overall C.A.P.E. Program.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Outcome/Impact indicators'. ('All of these indicatorsassumea measured2003 baseline and a five and a halfyear
timeframe)

These outcomes/triggers will be usedto measureoverall Project performance, and to measure readinessfor
the designo fa secondproject to Mher achievethe objectives ofthe C.A.P.E. Programat the endofyear
five and half.

I. AllC.A.P.E. signatoryinstitutionsdirectlysupportimplementationoftheProject.
2.    The numberof registeredcivil society stakeholdersparticipating inthe Project increasesby 30%.
3.    A CFR-wide conservationeducationstrategy is successfully designedandimplementedacross the
      Project area.
4.    The Baviaanskloof, Cederbergand GardenRoute protectedareashavebeenconsolidated.
5.    The number ofjobs directly associatedwith conservation andnature-basedtourism inProject
      intervention sites increases by 20%.
6.    Spatial development frameworks insix representativelowland sites incorporate conservation
      priorities.
7.    Five-year targets for protected area status for irreplaceable BroadHabitat Units inLowland areas and
      watersheds are met as definedby the C.A.P.E. 2000 Strategy.

See Map 1: Extent o f the Cape Floristic Region

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18995             Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/23/99
The current CAS has three maindevelopment objectives: (i)       Promoting higher growth and employment
while maintaining macro-economic stability inorder to generate sustainedimprovements inliving
standards; (ii) Fostering social and environmental sustainability by reducing poverty and inequality
through investment inhuman andnatural capital, accelerating and improvingthe delivery of assets and
servicesto the disadvantagedsegments o f society, andenhancingenvironmental management; and (iii)
Strengthening South Africa's constructive role in regional development through investment projects,
improvedpolicy integration, andcoordinated regional relations.

The main support to CAS objectives will be through objective 2, by supporting the conservation o f the
CFR, a global biodiversity hotspot and conservation priority o f the GoSA. It will achieve this by focussing
on addressingthe threats and root causes of biodiversity losses through two subsidiary-project objectives:
(i)supportingcapableinstitutionstodevelopthefoundationtomainstreambiodiversityobjectivesinto
economic activities. Mainstreaming inthis context, concerns the integration of biodiversity concerns into
relevant sectoral or cross-sectoralplans, programs and policies, resulting insituations where there is a
simultaneous achievemento f gains inbiodiversity andgains inan economic sector; the "win-win'' scenario
(Pierce, et al., 2002). The Project will support this by: strengthening institutions to conserve biodiversity,
through creating a more aware public inorder to reduce their impact on the CFR, by supporting improved
landuse andwatershedmanagementto includebiodiversityconcerns includingthrough the use of
environmental resourceeconomic instruments; and (ii)      through pilotingand demonstrating site based



                                                       - 3 -

models for sustainable effective biodiversity management. The Project will involve private landownersand
communities inconservation activities inorder to expandthe protected area o f the CFR to include
threatenedand a representativesample o f habitat. These demonstrations will take place inno fewer than
ten Project intervention sites and include support to the establishment of three proposed mega-reserves. A
key Project aim is to ensure that successfulinterventions are scaledup andreplicated insubsequent phases
o f the C.A.P.E. Program.

The Project is aligned to supporting the CAS objective 2, rather than seekingprimary impact on generating
growth, employment and poverty alleviation at scale. A modest target o f 20% increase injobs is beingset,
from a low base, inProject intervention areas as indication o f the intent to preserveandgrowjobs inthese
sites. At mid-term this target will be reviewed with a view to better defining the anticipatedjob impact of
the Project.

The Project is fully consistentwith the UnitedNations Development Program(UNDP) Country
Cooperation Framework (Area 4) objectives. This makes provision for protecting the global environment
though conservation and protection o f local andregional environments o f global significance inpartnership
with the GEF. Community-based resourcemanagementinitiatives will be supported and national capacity
will be strengthenedfor collaborative management of natural resourcesincluding inthe CFR.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:
The Project is consistentwith five GEF Operational Strategies. These are: AridandSemi-AridEcosystems
(OP l),  Coastal and MarineFreshwater Systems (OP 2)) Forest Ecosystems(OP 3), Mountain Ecosystems
(OP 4) and IntegratedEcosystem Management (OP4.12).

The Project is consistentwith these Operational Programsbecause: (i)       the CFR is noted as one of 25
global biodiversity hotspots, is the only floristic region to be found within one country, contains high
biodiversity and faces a highlevel o f threat inthe terrestrial (lowland andmontane environments), marine
and freshwater environment; (ii) CFR is located primarily ina semi-arid environment, receiving
                                  the
approximately 750 mmo f rainper annum; and (iii)       the Project will support conservation of globally
threatenedbiodiversity inwatersheds, the terrestrial, marine andaquatic components o f the largely
semi-arid and montane CFR.

The Project supports at least three other relevant and important intemationalinitiatives in South Africa.
These are: (i)implementation o f commitments to the Convention on Biodiversity, signed by SouthAfrica
onNovember 2, 1995. South Africa completed a preliminary FirstAfrican National Report to the Fourth
Conferenceof the Parties inJanuary 1998 and is now producinga National Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan; (ii)supporting South Africa to achieve outcomes o f the Johannesburg Summit, by providing
Project resourcesto marine protected areas and supporting "restoring fish stocks by 2015, adopting
ecosystem-wideplanninginthe marine environment andarresting biodiversity losses by 2010"; and (iii)        the
MillenniumDevelopment Goalof"Ensuring environmental sustainability" by enhancing the extent of
protected area to maintainbiodiversity.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Conservation o f the CFR

SouthAfrica, like many developing countries, i s experiencing significant losses to its natural resources,
includingbiodiversity, especially inthe CFR. The impact o f these losses includes: (i)    reduced diversityand
ecosystemfunctioning; (ii) availability ofnatural resourcesneededfor socio-economic development
                            lower


                                                       - 4 -

(as inthe fishing andthe eco-tourism industries); (iii)   reducedrecreational and social value of the natural
environment; and (iv) degradationor loss of ecosystemservices such as for the provision o fwater.

The key threats to biodiversity andto natural resourcesinthe CFR include: (i)      habitat loss and
fragmentation, primarily through urban expansionand agricultural development; (ii)        invasion by alien plant
and animal species; (iii) including inappropriate fire management; (iv) over-abstraction o f surface and
                           fire,
underground water; and (v) over-exploitation and harvestingo f marine resourcesandcertain plant and
flower species.

The root causes of the biodiversity losses include the following: (i)   whilst the CFR is characterizedby
relatively well developedconservationinstitutions, further capacity is required to implement a long term
conservation agenda to conserve the CFR (ii)      historically, there has beena lack o f coordination between
conservation agencieswhich has dilutedthe ability to implement a long term program to conserve it; (iii)      a
coherenteducation agenda, aimed at encouraging inhabitants andbusiness to conservethe CFR, has been
lacking; (iv) historically, there has beentoo little emphasis placed on developing new models to increasethe
area o f the CFR under conservationmanagement,especially involving private land and the conservation o f
marine resources. This has resulted inan ineffective system o f conservation areas to conserve a
representativesample of the CFR includingthe regions 1,200 threatenedplantspecies andmarine
resources; (v) historically, there has been too little emphasis on incorporating biodiversity considerations
into land use planning inorder to prevent habitat loss. Further, inthreatenedareas, fiscal and other
instrumentsrequired to encouragelandownersto not develop inpriority conservation areas havebeen
lacking; and(vi) policy and legal frameworks for addressingbiodiversity threats inwatershedshave been
lacking.

Government strategy: GoSA has undertakena numbero f strategic interventions to address the above
issues. At a national level, GoSA has: (i)signedand ratifiedall key intemational conventions pertaining to
biodiversity conservation including: the Convention on Biodiversity (CBD), Ramsar, CITES andWorld
Heritage Convention; (ii)    has enacteda Constitution which supports a person's rightto sustainable
development. Inaddition it has introducedthe umbrella National Environmental ManagementAct (1998)
andthe Living Marine ResourcesAct. The new National Biodiversity Act and the ProtectedAreas Act
were promulgated inFebruary 2004. Importantly, the Biodiversity Act makes provision for the Grant
recipient agency, the NBI, to have wider responsibilities, inorder to support the implementation o f
programs such as the C.A.P.E. program. Landuse planning legislation has also beenintroduced at both a
National andProvincial level which requires local authorities to integrate natural resource considerations
into the annual municipal planning cycle. Policy and legislation to support watershedmanagement is also
beingimplemented; (iii)    adopteda bioregional approachto the conservation ofbiomes, basedon the
C.A.P.E. strategy; (iv) adopted a new school curriculum which includes conservation education; (v) agreed
to expand the area of South Africa underprotectedarea managementfrom 4.5%            - 7.5%;   (vi) provided
additional financial resourcesto the capital costs o f expanding the protectedarea network; (vii) in2001,
GoSA approved a Medium-termGEF Project Priority Frameworkwhich identified the CFR as a top
priority for GEF support; and (viii) developedthe Working for Water andPoverty Reliefprograms which
employ members o f the local community to eradicate key threats to watershedsandbiodiversity through
removing invasive alien plants.

Inorder to implementthe C.A.P.E. Program, the GoSA, the NBI, the three Project Sub-Executing
Agencies, other stakeholdersandthe private sector, have undertakena considerable numberof actions.
These include: (i) creating institutionalarrangementsto support the coordination and implementation of the
C.A.P.E. Program and the Project. The Cape CoordinationCommittee (CCC) and Cape Implementation
Committee (CIC) have been establishedto provide highlevel political and technical support. The Cape


                                                        - 5 -

CoordinationUnit (CCU) has beenestablishedand staffed to support Project preparation as well as Project
coordination and implementation on day to day basis. Further,all 23 signatoriesto the C.A.P.E. Program
have endorsedit and have substantially aligned their work programs and activities to it; (ii)
                                                                                            interms of
financing, a CEPF Grant o f US$6 millionhas beenleveragedo f which halfthe funds have been committed
to supporting an array of complementary civil society initiatives inthe C.A.P.E. Program. This includes
support to the establishmento f two project coordination units for two of the proposedmega-reserves, with
planningnow at more advancedstage. Inaddition the GEFhas allocatedUS$3 millionto the execution of
the C.A.P.E. Agulhas Plain Initiative (a conservation area inthe CFR) with strong support from
SANF'arks. Inorder to increase self generatedincome for conservation agencies, private sector concessions
are being developed; (iii) lessonslearnt from the GEF support to the Cape PeninsulaNational Park are
beingrolled out to other Conservationareas inthe CFR (iv) through initialsub-executing agency support,
the area ofprivate landunderconservationmanagementhas beenincreasedwith 148private nature
reserves, 43 conservancies, 36 natural heritage sites and two biospherereserves found inthe CFR (v) in
terms o f new fiscal instruments to increasethe area under conservation, GoSA has agreedto provide rates
rebates(local tax relief) to private land owners contracting landinto protected areas. Inaddition GoSA has
undertakento examine proposalsmadeto the DraR Tax Bill to provide similar relief; and (vi) Working for
Water and Poverty Relief projects are being successfully implemented inorder to remove alienvegetation
from watersheds.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project designhas consideredhow bestto supportthe C.A.P.E. Programand the conservation ofthe
CFR, basedon the considerableimplementation progressmadeto date as well as the Government
environment sector reforms referredto above. Giventhe long term programmatic nature ofthe required
intervention, two key choiceshave been selected: (i)to lay a foundation to mainstream biodiversity inthe
CFR into economic activities, especially productive landscapes. Without this approach, the root causes of
biodiversity losses confronting the CFR simply can not be addressedas biodiversity considerations will
remain peripheral to economic development; and (ii)   to pilot and adopt new models for site based
biodiversity management. The rationale behindthis choice is that inorder to bringa representativesample
of the CFR under protected area managementby 2024, considerably more piloting, adaptation and
evaluation o fconservation choices and models is required, before they can be consideredto be the right
choices for scaling up and replication across the CFR.

Layinga foundation to mainstream biodiversitv inthe CFR into economic activities

Inorder to addressthis issue, the Project will supportthree key activities (i) the overall soundnessof
                                                                              given
the various conservation agenciesinthe CFR, they will be strengthenedto support mainstreaming
activities. Strengtheningwill focus on issuessupporting inter-agency cooperation, strategic planning,
developing sustainablefinancial management strategies, sharing information andknowledge on best
practice inconservationmanagement andbuildingkey competencies; (ii)        civil society andother sectors
impacting negatively on biodiversity needto understandthe impact o f their activities on the CFR and the
alternative options which exist for reducing their impact. Therefore, an environmental education and
awareness strategywill be supported; and (iii) the Project will strengthenthe CCU to undertake day to day
coordination ofthe Project communication as well as providing strategic direction, monitoring and
evaluation o f Project activities.

DuringProject design, the issue ofthejob creation impact ofthe Project was considered, but it was not
possible to determine with any level o f accuracy the net gain which the Project will createor the
significance of these numbers. Therefore, it was agreedthat the Project should as minimumpreservejobs



                                                     - 6 -

andbe implemented to result ina netjob gain of no less than 20% indefinedintervention areas. This
seems feasible basedon local and international precedent. The Project midterm review will be usedto
assess and develop quantitative targets for job creation. This aspect will be carefully monitoredas it is
critical for the scaling up and replication o f conservationmodels which needto be consistent with
Government policy to supportjob creation anderadicatepoverty.

Piloting and adopting new models for biodiversitv management

New models andmechanismsneedto be found for conserving biodiversity inpriority sites inthe CFR,
including inthe terrestrial andmarine environment. The Project will support this at the larger and smaller
scale, where fragments of key landscapes needto be conserved. The three proposed large protected areas
will be expandedthrough public-private partnershipswhere private land-owners contract land into
protected areas. There are already conservancy models which can be usedand expandedindifferent
contexts whilst hrtherdevelopment o f new models is also required. The Project will similarly supportthe
protection o f two marine areas, two estuarineand two freshwater systems.

The Project will also support the developmentofnew modelsfor conserving fragmentedbiodiversity inthe
Lowlandareas of the CFR by undertakingfine scale mapping o fareas to be conservedand will develop
new financial instruments for conservation. These will include payment for ecological services and
investigation and support to the implementation of tax breaksto landowners conserving biodiversity inkey
sites. This activity, together with a number o f other Project activities, createeconomic (employment and
business) opportunities which collectively support the development of the "biodiversity economy". The
concept o f the biodiversity economy is that local economic development should be supportedina manner
which does not harmbiodiversity and inwhich the managemento fbiodiversity resourcesare developedinto
economic opportunities.

Inwatersheds, the Project will supportthe new catchmentmanagementagenciesto eradicatekey threatsto
biodiversity by undertaking targetedactivities to reduce over-abstraction o f water from rivers andthrough
including biodiversity considerations into fire management. Itwill also design a strategyto manage alien
invasive species inthe CFR which are regardedas a key threat to biodiversity.

Bothduring and after Project closure, lessons learnt from the various models will be evaluated with a view
to scaling up and replication across the CFR.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for adetailedcost breakdown):
The aim of the Project is to catalyze and drive the implementation o f the C.A.P.E. Program inPhase 1
through: (i)laying the foundations for mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy; and (ii) undertaking
                                                                                               by
carefully targetedconservation demonstrations inselectedbiophysical, socio-economic andinstitutional
contextswith a view to scaling these up. The Project has beendesignedto address systemic issues
including threats and root causes o f biodiversity losses. The design has been testedwith all key partners
and found to be feasible.

Laying a foundation for mainstreaming biodiversity inthe CFR into economic activities will entail: (i)
institutional strengthening; (ii)supporting conservation education; and (iii)   implementinga program
coordination, managementand monitoringframework.




                                                       - 7 -

Supporting the conservation of the CFR by piloting and adapting models for sustainable, effective
managementwill include support to (iv) protectedarea management;(v) establishingthe foundations of the
biodiversity economy; and (vi) integrating biodiversity concernsinto watershedmanagement.

Component1: Institutionalstrengthening. GEF:US$1.4m. ExecutedbyNBI(US$0.97m) for priority
institutions including the WCNCB (US$0.43m) for five new CatchmentManagementAgencies.

This component will align andstrengthen institutions to conservethe CFR. Itwill:
(i) enhanceinteragencycooperationandstrategicplanningforconservationmanagementintheCFR,
       including five catchment managementagencies which are about to be established;
(ii)buildcapacityforeffectiveconservationmanagement,includingenhancedcapacitytoinvolvepeople
       actively;
(iii)developandappraisestrategiesforfinancialsustainabilityacrossthesuiteofProjectExecuting
       Agencies; and
(iv) establish a sharedand comprehensiveinformationmanagement systemto share the most important
       knowledge requirements.

Component2: Conservationeducation. GEF: US$0.6m. ExecutedbyNBIinpartnership with key
education institutions (Rhodes University)for key Project partners.

This component will support the developmentof a conservation education and awarenessprogramto
conserve the CFR. Itwill:
(i) facilitatecoordinatedenvirunmentaleducationabouttheCFRbyestablishingafocalpointand
       mechanism for coordination and technical support to site-specific interventions at the level of each
       sub-component and activity across the Project; and
(ii)   develop and disseminatematerials focused on CFR biodiversity, supportive o f informal and formal
       education curricula, includingtraining of educatorsto capitalize on the favorable education policy
       environment.

Component 3: ProgramandProjectcoordination,managementand monitoring.GEF: US$1.lm.
Executedby NBI(USSl. lm) for all beneficiary institutions to the Project.

This component will strengthenthe C.A.P.E. Coordination Unitat the NBIto undertake:
(i)programcoordinationandmanagement;
(ii)financialmanagementoftheoverallProject;
(iii)programportfolio managementandcoordinatedmonitoringandevaluationtoassesslessonslearned
       and support anddevelop a replicationplan, basedon cost benefit analysis; and
(iv)   a communication program.

Component4: Protectedareas. GEF: US$4.12m. Executed by SANParks (US$1.33m) for Garden
Route andM C M (Marine Protected Areas); WCNCB (US$1.69m) for protected areas inthe Western
Cape, including Cederbergand M C M(Kogelberg Marine Reserve); andWildernessFoundation
(US$ 1.I Om) for the Baviaanskloof for the Departmento fEconomic Affairs, Environment and Tourism
(DEAET inEasternCape).

This component will expand the protected areas ofthe CFR. (Refer to Map 2). Itwill:
(i)    planand consolidatethree large protectedarea complexes involvingprivate landowners and
       inhabitants as beneficiaries (Cederberg, Baviaanskloofand the Garden Route), includinghighly
       threatenedlowland habitat. Different models for public-private sector management will be applied in


                                                    - 8 -

       these areas which represent characteristic institutional and socio-economic settings across the C F R
(ii)   establish two freshwater, two estuarine and two clusters o f marine protected areas;
(iii)develop     sustainable management effectiveness o f protectedareas through implementation o f a
       Strategic Performance Management System, based on the models developed inthe Cape Peninsula
       National Park and emergent rapid assessmenttechniques for management effectiveness being
       developedby World BankiWWF/IUCN,           and
(iv)   develop a harmonized protected area information management systems, plan for responsible tourism
       investment and visitor impact mitigation infour protected areas as well as protected area business
       plans and mechanisms for financial sustainability in four protected areas.

Component5: Biodiversityeconomy and consewationstewardship. GEF: US$2.45m. Executedby
NE31(US$l.13m) andby WCNCB (US$1.32m) for DEA&DP, DoA and key municipalities.

This component will mainstreambiodiversity considerations into economic growthanddevelopment,
including some demonstrations inkey interventions areas (Refer to Map 3). It will:
(i)    integrate fine-scale conservation plans infive priority target areas into government spatial planning
       and regulations at municipal level;
(ii)   increase landowner commitment to conservation through coordinated extension services and
       cooperative management schemes inpriority target areas; and
(iii)develop     andpilot financial incentives to conserve biodiversity inthreatened lowland habitats. This
       will include tax incentives andpayment for ecological services.

Component6: Watershedmanagement. GEF: USSl.32m. ExecutedbyNBI(US$0.9lm) for estuarine
and freshwater protected areas; and by WCNCB (US$O.4lm) for DWAF (watersheds).

This component will address watershed management and freshwater and estuarine protectedareas inkey
intervention sites (Refer to Map 4):
(i)    increase the effectiveness o f the "Ecological Reserve" measure inwater resource management in
       three watersheds, and incorporate biodiversity concerns into the new fire management systems being
       implemented;
(ii)   create an alien invasive species management strategy andbusiness plan for the entire CFR and pilot
       the control of invasive aliens incertain priority ecosystems; and
(iii)design    and test a CFR estuarine management program, based on relevant case studies.

Note: Rounding offchanges figures slightly

                                                     Indicative
          Component                                    costs
                                                      (US$M)
1. Institutional strengthening(UNDP)                      5.80      10.5      0.00       0.0        1.40    12.7
2. Conservation education ( UNDP )                        1.11       2.0      0.00       0.0       0.60     5.5
3. Program managementand coordination (Bank)              1.79       3.2      0.00       0.0        1.11    10.1
4. Protectedarea management(Bank)                        21.72      50.3      0.00       0.0       4.12     37.5
5. Establishingthe foundationsof the biodiversity        11.67      21.2      0.00       0.0        2.45    22.3
economy (Bank)
6. Watershedmanagement(Bank)                             7.04       12.8      0.00       0.0        1.32    12.0
                               Total Project Costs       55.13     100.0      0.00       0.0      11.00    100.0
                      Interest during construction       0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0        0.00     0.0
                         Total Financing Required        55.13




                                                       - 9 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:
Because o f South Africa's impressive recordregarding reform inthe environment sector, the Project will
support the design o fone reform. This will be the development o fnew financial instruments to conserve
the threatened lowland areas o f the CFR. Tax incentives andpayment for ecological services models will
be investigated, based on cost benefit analysis to encourage land-owners to conserve threatened lowland
habitats. This activity will involve the cooperation and support o f local government as well as Ministryo f
Finance. The South African Government has already agreed that private landcontracted into approved
protected areas will benefit from rates rebates (local tax rebates). Interms o f the draft Tax Bill,
representations made to similarly provide tax relief, are being considered. Further, the Ministryo f Finance
i s currently engaged inthe working group to the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan which i s
inter-alia examining the use o f fiscal instruments to support conservation o f biodiversity. Water laws
provide for Catchment Management Agencies to levy water consumers inorder to conserve watersheds.
Given this scenario, it has been agreed to investigate and support the piloting o f this reform.

3. Benefitsand target population:
Environmentalbenefits
The overriding benefit o f the Project is that the foundation will be laid to conserve a representative sample
of the globally significant CFR and adjacent marine environment. The interventions will address the
systemic threats and root causes o f biodiversity losses referred to inAnnex 12, Threats Analysis, whilst
piloting site based conservation initiatives. Environmental benefits will include: (i)  an expanded and
consolidated sample of the CFR is conserved (terrestrial and marine); target expansion o f 4,000 km2,
including the establishment o f three mega-reserves (Baviaanskloof, Cederberg and Garden Route) and
enhanced management effectiveness across the CFR (ii) conservation o f biodiversity through improved
                                                            the
land-use decision-making; (iii)  the conservation of biodiversity through enhanced watershed management
including an alien invasive species and fire management program; (iv) riverine biodiversity will benefit
from better definition o f the ecological reserve required for rivers; (v) reduction inover-harvesting o f
marine resources inkey areas; and(vi) enhanced management o ftwo estuaries.

Socio-economic benefits
Private sector and landownerslfarmers
The Project is expected to create a number o f socio-economic opportunities for communities andbusinesses
located inand adjacent to the proposed protected areas. The Project is also expected to lay the initial
foundation for the establishment o f the biodiversity economy. The main benefits which are expected to
accrue include: (i)inthe three proposedmega-reserves, concessioningopportunities will be created for the
private sector to support tourism related services and accommodation. As inthe case of other conservation
areas, private sector eco-tourism investment opportunities can also be expected to materialize outside o f
these areas; (ii)benefits are expected to accrue to a limitednumber o f landowners and farmers located in
sensitive Lowlandareas where incentive models and payment for ecological services will be designed and
piloted. Extension services will also be providedto improve environmental management to land-owners in
identified areas; and (iii) values are expectedto increase on private landinprotectedareas as
                           land
investment to conservation land-uses switches from less profitable land-uses.

NGOs. civil society and disadvantaged groups
The Project has set a target to expand the number o fjobs inintervention areas by 20%, as a commitment to
ensuring that there is a net gain injobs inthese areas. The following specific benefits are expected (i)
where land-owners contract land into protected areas, employment levels and wages are expected to
increase with more stable working conditions as found ina number o f current conservation models in South


                                                      -10-

Africa; (ii)communities will benefit from expanded Working for Water and Poverty ReliefPrograms.
Withinprotectedareas and watersheds, environmental rehabilitation will create much-needed employment
andmicro-enterprise development opportunities; (iii)   conservation education, training and capacity-building
opportunities will accrue to targeted communities, schools and NGOs, enabling them to participate
effectively inthe Project; (iv) inthe marine environment, at least two poor communities will benefit from
co-management models for marine resource management whilst others will benefit from improved
anti-poaching andmanagement o f marine resources; and (v) relevant NGOs, such as the Wildemess
Foundation, will be offered partnership opportunities inProject implementation.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
DuringProject preparation, iterative assessmentsandconsultations were undertakento identify the most
suitable agencies and organizations to execute and support the Project. Criteria included assessingthe legal
mandates o f agencies, anticipated new legislation, experience inproject implementation, the availability o f
technical andfinancial resources, fiduciary systems and the desirekommitment to execute activities. Based
on this assessment, the following arrangements were determined.

The recipient o f the Grant will be the National Botanical Institute (NBI), supported by a special unit within
the organization, the Cape Coordination Unit (CCU). The CCU will perform the responsibilities assigned
to the NBIinthe Grant Agreement on a day-to-day basis. There will be three Sub-Executing Agencies to
the Grant Agreement, namely the Westem Cape Nature Conservation Board, South African National Parks
and an NGO,the Wildemess Foundation. The Sub-Executing Agencies will be delegated responsibility for
the performance o f certain key activities by the NBI. The reasons for this design and the responsibilities
for implementation o f the Project are provided below:

6)     NationalBotanicalInstitute (NBI). After extensive negotiationsbetween all role players, the NBI
       was identified as the lead executing agent for the Project. It is already executing three GEF projects
       and its new legal mandate, interms o f the Biodiversity Act, will include support to implementing
       bioregional programs such as the C.A.P.E. Program. The NBIis a statutory body o f National
       Government. It will take overall responsibility for the Project, supportedby the CCU. The C C U
       consists o f a Coordinator, Administrative Assistant, FinanceBusiness Manager,
       Finance/Procurement Specialist, Communications Manager and Program Developer, with all other
       supervisory, administrative, financial and humanresource management services supplied by the NBI.
       The operation o f the CCU will be partially financed through the Grant andthe WCNCB. The CCU
       will implement cross-cutting activities relatedto InstitutionalStrengtheningand Program
       Coordination, Management andMonitoring. It will also execute some o f the Conservation
       Education, Biodiversity Economy and Watershed Management activities. GEF financing:
       US$4.7 Im.
(ii)WesternCapeNatureConservationBoard(WCNCB). TheWCNCBisastatutoryconservation
       body o f the Westem Cape Government. It has considerable implementation capacity inconservation
       management at the Provincial level. It will take responsibility for executing the Cederberg
      mega-reserve area as it already manages a large protected area in the Cederberg. It will also assume
       responsibility for supporting Conservation Stewardship and Watershed Management (inpartnership
       with the Department o f Water Affairs and Forestry (DWAF) because it is active inthe area and has
       the capacity. GEF financing: US$3.86m.
(iii)SouthAfricanNationalParks(SANParks). SANParkswilltakeresponsibilityforexecutingthe
       Garden Route Initiative because it already manages three smaller protectedareas inthe Garden
      Route and has the management capacity to expand these. It will also support the development o f the
      associated Marine Protected Areas as it has a long standinghistory inmanagingmarine resources in


                                                     - 11 -

       the area. It will perform these activities inpartnership with DEAT, DWAF, WCNCB and NGOs.
        GEF financing: US$1.33m.
       WildernessFoundation(WF). The Eastern Cape Province has recognized its weakness inplanning
       and implementing new conservation areas. Ithas therefore contracted the WF, a professional and
       capable conservation NGO, to act on its behalf. The WF will take responsibility for executing all
       activities relatingto the Baviaanskloof initiative under Component 4 (Protected Areas). GEF
       financing: US$I.Om.1

The legal arrangements for Project execution are as follows: The NBIwill be the Grantrecipient.
SeparateProject Agreements will be signed betweenthe Bank and the three Sub-Executing Agents. The
NBIwill inturnsignseparate Subsidiary Agreements with each o fthe Sub-Executing Agencies spelling out
the activities to be performed, financial management, procurement, reporting, monitoring and safeguard
requirements. Regarding the implementation arrangements for complying with safeguard policies, the
following will apply:
     0    The NBIwill assume overall responsibility for ensuring compliance to Bank safeguards; but
     0    Itwill delegate the planningandexecution ofthis responsibility to the three Sub-Executing
          Agencies through Subsidiary Agreements. The NBIwill however be responsible for seeking Bank
          endorsement o f compliance to safeguards and will therefore monitor performance inthis regard.

FinancialManagement
Project Financial Management will be overseen by the existing NBIFinance Department. The CCU will
manage the overall coordination o f the Project between the NBIand the three Sub-Executing Agencies.

The CCU's Project Coordinator will be assisted by technical specialists, as well as a FinancialrProcurement
Specialist. The Specialist will be responsible for keeping copies o f all accounting records (originals files
with the payment documentation kept at the NBIFinance Department), justification of claims from the
Sub-Executing Agencies, disbursements andreplenishment o f the Special Account, financial reporting on
CCUactivities as well as consolidating the activities o fthe Sub-Executing Agencies into CCUreports, and
general administration o f the unit. The Specialist will report to both the CCU's Project Coordinator and
the NBI's Director o f Finance who will remain the "Accounting Officer" for the Project. This is an existing
and hlly staffed department comprising a qualified Chartered Accountant as head, assisted by other
professionally qualified accountants inthe department. The CCUwill however be responsible for
producing a comprehensive project performance report incorporating the activities o f the Sub-Executing
Agencies. The NBIalready has a comprehensive Accounting and Administrative Manual. This will
however be "customized" to incorporate the new CCU andthe relationship with the Sub-Executing
Agencies.

The NBIchart ofaccounts andNBIsystems will be usedfor overall project accounting and reporting. The
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the Project have been designed and both the Sub-Executing
Agencies and NBI's systems will support the preparation o f FMRs. Internal auditors currently exist inthe
SANParks and are about to be introduced into the WCNCB. The Wilderness Foundation does not have
internal auditors. Due to its size this is not foreseen as a constraint on the Project due to the size o f the
funds which they will manage.

External audit arrangements are provided through the Auditor General o f South Africa which has statutory
responsibility for the audit of the NBI, SANParks, and WCNCB. The Wilderness Foundation is audited by
ErnstandYoung. Whilst the Bank is satisfied with the Auditor General Standards, the agreed audit terms
o f reference will need to be reviewed for compliance with the requirements o f the Bank.



                                                      - 12-

Governance structures
As the Project is supportedby a range ofother key partners, including central, provincial, local government
and NGOs, the govemance relationship is established as follows: (i)     the key highlevel partners to the
C.A.P.E. Program are bound by a Memorandum o f Understanding (Mow. The parties to the agreement
include the National Ministries o f Environmental Affairs andTourism and Water Affairs and Forestry, and
the Members o f the Executive Councils o f the Westem Cape and Eastem Cape, responsible for
Environment Affairs; (ii)   The M o U creates two key structures: the C.A.P.E. Coordinating Committee
(CCC), with the overall function to coordinate the long-term implementation o f the C.A.P.E. Program.
This is a structure which operates at a political level between National and Provincial Government. The
second structure, the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (CIC), represents government departments,
municipalities, statutory bodies and accredited non-governmental organizations. Itis responsible for
executing the C.A.P.E. Program according to the recommendations o f the CCC. It therefore operates at a
technical level; and (iii) the M o U designates the NBIas the programmanagement agency to execute
C.A.P.E. andtherefore the recipient o f the GEF grant. The NBIhas established an Executive Committee
(EXCO) to include key staff o f the NBIand representatives o f the CIC's Executive Committee to clear
monthly work program issues.

World Bank and UNDP support
The arrangements between the World Bank and the UNDP for supporting the Project are as follows:
0    the GEF Council has endorsed the UNDP as implementing agent for components 1and2. It has
     endorsed the World Bank as implementing agent for components 3-6;
0    each agency will, as per separate Grant Agreement, assume responsibility for all aspects o f the
     implementation o f the components listed ineach Grant Agreement. This includes Project supervision
     and monitoring, all fiduciary issues and responding to the clients needs for technical assistance. Each
     agency will be responsible for covering its own costs inthis regard;
0    all technical project documents will be shared between the two agencies;
0    the two agencies will as far as possible planandconductjoint supervision missions, midterm reviews,
     reportingto the GEF and implementation closure processes; and
0    all Project reporting has as far as possible been standardized between the two agencies.

Planning cycle and funder roundtables
Once a year, a funder roundtable will be convened by the NBIwith the Sub-Executing Agencies, key
stakeholders andhnders and donors. The aim o f the roundtable will be to report back on Project
implementation progress, the annual work plan and the annual budget. All key stakeholders to the Project
will be invited to the roundtable including Government, NGOs and bilateral donors. The private sector is
unlikely to participate inthese meetings as, by its nature, it will look to specific investment opportunities in
the Project area which are best addressed through for example concessioning processes. It should be noted
that donor coordination meetings, held during Project preparation, indicated a preference o f bilateral
funders to fund activities outside o f the Westem Cape which is perceived to be a relatively wealthier area.

Financial management and procurement
The NBIwill be responsible for undertaking the fiduciary responsibilities set out inthe two Grant
Agreements between the NBI, the World Bank and UNDP respectively. It will open Special Accounts for
each o fthe Bank andUNDP Grant Agreements at a commercial bank. The NBIwill ensure that
procurement is undertaken inaccordance with the applicable Grant Agreement procurement procedures for
all activities. The NBI,interms o f the Subsidiary Agreements with Sub-Executing Agencies, will ensure
that these agencies adhere to the applicable procurement rules and it will validate claims for reimbursement
o f costs incurred by these agencies. Grant disbursement from the Bank to the NBIwill primarily operate on
the basis o f submissions o f FMRs.


                                                     -  13-

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection:
Series o f uroiects versus programmatic approach: A Programmatic approachhas beenselectedfor the
implementation o f the Project. Duringproject preparation, two options were examined to achieve the
Project Development Objective andto implement the 37 projects identifiedinthe C.A.P.E. Program. The
choice was to either implement all or a selection of the 37 projects as reasonablydiscrete activities or ina
programmatic way. The choice of discrete project implementation may offer the benefit o f more rapid
project implementation providedthat resourcescan be mobilized, and it may entail lower inter-agency
coordination. The advantages of the programmatic approachare that it offers the opportunity to address
issues at systemic and mainstreaming level, to enhance knowledge sharing, to share resources, to win
overall project support at a strategic level and to develop aphasedProgram. This is consistent with the
bioregional programmatic approachto biodiversity conservation adoptedby South Africa in2002 (A
BioregionalApproach to SouthAfrica s ProtectedAreas 2001-2002). The programmatic design also
recognizesthat coordination o fthe otherwise fragmented institutions involved inconservation, including
cross-sectoralcoordination i s fundamental to success. Further,the transaction costs of preparing and
managing a series of independentprojects are considerably higher than for preparing and managing a suite
o f activities which effectively constitute a program. Therefore, early inthe project cycle, all stakeholders,
together with the GEFSEC, unanimously agreedto adopt a programmatic approachtowards implementing
the Project.

New models for expanding protected areas: Dueto the needto considerably expand a representative
sample o f the CFR under conservation management,a decision neededto be taken whether to use existing
conventional protectedarea models to expandthe protected area or to pilot new models basedon public         -
private sector initiatives already evident inthe area andelsewhere inthe world. Dueto the costs associated
with implementingtraditional protected area models and their inappropriatenessfor conserving the array of
priority habitats areas under various land ownership and biodiversity contexts, it was decided to adopt a
piloting and adaptive approach.

Proiect fund management: As there are relatively few Project financing streams requiringcoordination by
the NBI,for the implementation ofthe Project, it was agreedthat each funding stream will be managed
separately. Initiallyit was thought that inorder to reducethe transaction costs o f fundmanagementfor the
recipient, the option of a sector-wide basket funding approachmightbe preferable. This was discussed
with other donor agencies, but was rejected. Firstly, the quantum of funding does not warrant this
approachand secondly, there was little support for the approach from other funders and donors.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                   Latest Supervision
               Sector issue                              Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                              (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                                              Implementation      Development
 Bank-financed                                                                 Progress(IP)      Objective (DO)

 Industry                                   Industrial Competitiveness              S                  S

 Municipal                                  Municipal Financial                      S                 S
                                            Management Support


                                                     - 14-

WB-GEF                                    CAPE PeninsulaBiodiversity
                                          ConservationProject

WB-GEF                                    Maloti-Drakensberg
                                          Transfrontier Conservation and
                                          DevelopmentProject

WB-GEF                                    Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem
                                          Planning (STEP), MSP

WB-GEF                                    ConservationFarming, MSP

WB-GEF                                    SustainableProtectedArea
                                          Development inNamaqualand,
                                          MSP

WB-GEF                                    Global Development Renewable
                                          Energy (preparation)
3ther development agencies
UNDP-GEF                                  Agulhas Plain

UNDP-GEF                                  BCLME

UNDP-GEF                                   SABONET

UNDP                                      Tourism Master Strategy

UNDP-GEF                                  Wild Coast (preparation)

CEPF                                       SucculentKaroo Ecosystem
                                           Profile

CEPF                                       CFR EcosystemProfile

DANCED                                     Capacity Building in
                                           SANParks. Socio-economic
                                           overview of disadvantaged
                                           community neighboring AENP

Industrial Development Corporation         Tourism Product Development
(IDC)

IFC                                        Tourism Product Development

SA Government                              Poverty Relief Program (WfW)
                                          I
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), t (Highly Unsati: ICtOry)




                                                    -15-

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learnt reflect experiences, including international best practice, from programs and projects under
preparation or supervision insideandoutside of South Africa, the findings of implementation completion
reports andagency reviews. Five key lessons are reflected inthe Project design.

3.1 Programmatic approach
Inorder to implement a largenumberof conservationinterventionswithina biome over a longperiodof
time, it is essential to select a Program approach. A discrete project by project approach can not address
the threats and root causes o f biodiversity losses as it can not easily support mainstreaming activities. It is
also important to pilot and develop new models for conservationmanagementaccording to different settings
and which can be scaledup andreplicated in similar contexts. This requires the implementation o f a sound
monitoring and evaluation systemto assess the cost effectivenesso fthe various models. Program designs
should buildon the outcomes and lessons derived from pre-feasibility investmentsand lessons learnt from
existing successfuloutcomes inthe area. Further, bioregional conservation programs should be driven by
the borrower andhave strongdomestic political support. The Project hasfollowedthis model, havingbeen
developed from a bioregional planning framework and a clear pre-feasibility action plan.

3.2 Participatory approach
Involvingall relevant stakeholdersinProjects at the rightlevel, is key to success. Therefore, there should
be coherence and consistency inthe approachto stakeholderparticipation inProjects. Inaddition,
successful stakeholderparticipation is dependenton a commitment to participatory approachesby
executing bodies. There should be sensitivity to local variations of culture, history, language and
traditions. Groups marginalized for reasons o f poverty, gender, culture and language require specific
attention and support inthe design and implementation o f detailed participation activities. This is
important inorder to assess whether the envisagedProject benefits, to these groups, infact materialize and
the adjustmentswhich needto be madeinthis regard. Significant local stakeholdersupport and
commitment is best leveragedthrough decentralizedapproaches. Lastly, the early involvement o f
stakeholders inProject and or activity planningi s essentialinorder to ensure ownership and successful
project implementation. The Project has developeda clear monitoring and evaluation system, public
participationpolicy and communication strategy, takinginto account the above.

3.3 Institutional capacity for project execution
Wherever practicable, implementation responsibilities should be vested inexisting institutions rather than
creating new ones. The selectiono f institutions for implementation should be informedby an analysis o f
institutionalcapacities, a strategic review of missionand policy objectives, goals, operational performance
andbudgets. The Project has, basedon anassessment of institutionalcapacities, identified the key
agenciesto executethe Project.

3.4 Over-harvesting of marine resources
Traditional fishery managementmeasures (e.g. size limits, bag limits, closed seasons) that are not used in
conjunction with Marine ProtectedAreas (MPAs) have failed to limit exploitation. Therefore, both the use
of traditional managementmodels together with the development o fMPAs is required. Further,the
successful implementation o f these measures requires monitoring, surveillance and control at all levels.
The Project therefore intendsto pilot the design and implementation o f these measures.

3.5 New market-based mechanisms
Payment for ecological services has been found to be a viable mechanism to conserve natural resources.
The lessons learnt from the implementation of the payment for ecological services programinCosta Rica



                                                     -16-

and the design work inMadagascarwill be appliedto conserve the Lowland areas inthe Project. This will
include the identificationandmapping o f areas to be conservedand the development o f altemative payment
models to conserve them. It is however important that such funding mechanismsare placed on a
sustainable financial footing.

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipientcommitmentandownership:
The GoSA has endorsedthe C.A.P.E. Program andthe Project as apriority ofNational Government as
well as a priority for GEF funding support. The NBIhas agreedto take on the responsibility of lead
executing agency for the Project with support from the three Sub-Executing Agencies: South African
National Parks, the Western CapeNature Conservation Boardand the Wilderness Foundation. Project
execution will be further supported by the members ofthe C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee and the
C.A.P.E. Coordination Committee (Refer to Section C4 above). O f note, the Project is supported by a very
substantialbaseline of approximately US$200 million. Over US$44 millionhas been pledged to the
Project including from the National Botanical Institute, SouthAfrican National Parks, Western Cape
Nature Conservation Board, Department o f Environmental Affairs and Tourism, Fynbos Forum,
Department of Water Affairs and Forestry, LocalGovernment and THETA. The private sector is
predicted to invest substantially inprotected areas as it has inother parts o f South Africa. Further,private
land-owners have shown increasing commitment to expanding the area of the CFR under protected area
management.

The C.A.P.E. Program is intemationallyrecognized as an innovative programwhich has the support o f all
main stakeholderswith a number o f key activities already under implementation as discussedinsectionA2
o f this Project document. Itwas effectively endorsedby all stakeholdersin September2000, andthe main
executing agencies immediately began implementation o f the most important components, while continuing
to seek domestic and further donor support. Initially, the Program operatedwithout significant donor
support untila CEPF grant o fUS$6 millionwas made inDecember 2001. Duringthis period, agreement
was reachedbetweennational andprovincial executive levels o fgovernment to continue the development
andimplementationofthe Program, with a Memorandum ofUnderstanding signedbetweennational and
provincial ministers. The MoU at that time had 16 signatory agencies (now increasedto 23), representing
the GoSA, NGOs and conservation agencies. These agencies have continuedto support the C.A.P.E.
Program and the design o f the Project with quarterly meetingsand intensive input to Project design.

5. Value addedof Bankand Globalsupport in this project:
The CFR has beenidentifiedas a global biodiversity hotspot underthreat and worthy o f international
conservation action. The role o fthe GEF, the World Bank and o f UNDP is to provide technical and
financial support, to augment current baseline capacities, based on agreedpre-feasibility studies. Both
organizations are well positioned to support the Project due to their extensive experience insupporting
large conservationprograms inmiddle income and developing countries. Support from the World Bank
and UNDP is basedon comparative advantage.

The World Bank'sstrengths lie insupporting large programs which leverage significant investment
including public and private sector, which provide opportunities for mainstreaming into productive sectors
o fthe economy andwhich identifyhow best to enhance economic linkages. The World Bank is currently
supporting a numbero fbiodiversity and landdegradation projects that promote integrated ecosystem
management, identifying threats androot causes o fbiodiversity loss. The World Bankhas good knowledge
o f South Africa and o fthe CFR through its current support to the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity
Conservation Project (including the C.A.P.E. Program), support to three MSPs, including one through the
National Botanical Institute, and the preparation of the Addo Project. Extensive support has beenprovided


                                                    -17-

inthe planning, managementsystems, capacity-building, tourism assessment, conservationeducation,
knowledge managementandalien species control activities. Further, the Bank is able to provide support on
the cost effectiveness analysis of pilot activities with respectto scaling up opportunities.

The UNDP has similarly providedsupport and is currently preparing a numberofprograms inthe region
which focus on integrated ecosystemmanagement. Programsunder implementation include the regional
SABONET Program, Benguela Current Large Marine EcosystemProgram, with others underpreparation
including the Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative as well as MSPs. Basedon experience inside and outside of
South Africa, the UNDP is positioned to leadon the capacity buildingandconservation education
componentso f the Project.

Annual funder round tables will be hostedby the South African Government and supportedby the Bank
andthe UNDP. The aims ofthe funder roundtableswill be: (i) the recipient to annually report to
                                                                   for
funders, donors and other domestic agencies on Project progress and to agree on the Project deliverables
and use o f financial resourcesfor the next year; (ii)finalize the support o f additional funders and donors to
the Project. The target is to increasefinancial support by an additional 15% inthis regard; and (iii)   seek
additional specialist technical support from funders to the Project. The funder roundtables will therefore
constitute the culmination o fvarious earlier bilateral discussions involving Government, the Bank and
UNDP with existing funders and donors, rather that the initiation thereof. This support will take place
whilst recognizing the preferredSouthAfrican Government positionto use Government funds within the
CFR and to direct donor funds to the poorer Provinces, such as the Eastern Cape.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailedassessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
The baselinecosts are an estimatedUS$213 million and the GEF alternative is US268.28 millionwith a
total project cost of US55.13 million, co-financing o f US$44.13 million and incremental cost of US$11.32
million. It should be noted that the fluctuating exchangerate as well as the inputs anticipated from private
sector concessionsbringvariability to these figures. SANParks, nationally, has a highly successfully
concessioningprogramwhich indicates strong market interest ininvestment inprotected areas where as
other agencies are piloting this approach. Hence the anticipated, private sector investmentofUS$16
million out o f $US44.13 must at this stage be regarded as variable.

The GEF Alternative includes regular governmento f SouthAfrica expenditures on implementing and
defining legal and institutional arrangementsfor protected area management, managingbiodiversity at the
bioregional scale, conservation and agricultural extension at the landscape level, revisingintegrated
development plans at the local government level, watershedmanagement, conservation education,
community development andregional development. Incremental costs are estimatedto cover project
expenditureson components that have global benefits and are eligible for GEF financing. The incremental
costs will help achieve global benefits by addressingsome ofthe key threats and root causes of biodiversity
losses including habitat loss, alien invasive species managementand over-exploitation o fresources. It will
do this by supporting each Project component including improving institutional capacity for long-term
sustainability o f conservation interventions at the systemic level; enhancing awareness of conservation
values among decision-makers and civil society; monitoringo f the pressure, state and response o f global
conservation investments, expanding and managing protected areas more effectively to conserve globally


                                                      - 18-

significant biodiversity; supporting the CCU, integrating spatial plans as a framework for mainstreaming
biodiversity objectives into economic activities and applying new conservationincentives to mitigate
threats; and expanding invasive alien species managementto address threats to native biota. Partners to the
Project have committedto financing of US$44.45 million for the GEF altemative and further resourcesare
expectedto be leveragedfrom the private sector inthe establishmento fnew protected areas and investment
intourism. The Project design aligns the budgetsof key governmentalandnon-governmental
organizations to the C.A.P.E. strategy.

Regardingbiodiversity-economic linkages, the Project is designedto mainstreambiodiversity into the
productive sectorso f the economy, especially agriculture. Although Component 5 is specifically labeled as
Mainstreaming Biodiversity, this component will also develop a much greaterunderstandingof how
biodiversity can support economic development inthe CFR through analysis o fpilot activities. The
activities under Component 5 are aimed at promoting land-usepracticeswhich conserve the highly
fragmented remnants o f biodiversity, particularly in lowland landscapes. Agricultural productivity and
viability is indecline inmuch o fthe wheatland areas of the Lowlands, and farmers are underpressureto
diversify and changeland-use practices, all with a potential riskto remnantbiodiversity. Inthis
component, the lessons already learnedfrom private land-owner income generatingconservation activities
will be replicated on priority lowland sites. Other components of the Project are also designedto increase
the opportunity andimpact ofbiodiversity inthe economy, e.g. the acceleratedinvestment inthe protected
areas, where these assets provide opportunities for diversejob creation and new investment. Component 6
i s also concemed with mainstreaming, as improvedwatershedand fire management are all factors which
influence the viability and economic retum o f rural land-use.

Drawing on other Project preparation work in South Africa, including the Addo and Maloti Drakensberg
Projects, a target for a net gain injobs o f 20% has beenset (from low base) through landincorporated into
protected areas. Given the very wide variety o f conditions found across the CFR, Project preparation has
not beenable to model the anticipatedjob creation impacts o f the Project. Therefore, during
implementation of the conservation andprotected area models, baselinedata will be gatheredindifferent
settings to monitor impacts and at midterm review, quantitative targets will be defined. These will then be
assessedat Project closure, to asses the netjob impact o f scaling up the C.A.P.E. Program, inPhase 2.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The investment program inthe CFR has been found to be cost-effective. Ithas been designedinorder to
both eliminate the root causes to the loss of biodiversity whilst enhancingthe protected area network under
different public-private sector models. Out ofthe US$11millionProject investment, approximately
US6.57 million will be invested insupporting the expansion o f protected areas and approximately
US$4.43 insupporting activities aimed at addressingthe threats and root causes o f biodiversity losses in
the CFR. The GEF investment insupporting the development ofnew protected areas is approximately
US$1,400 per km2, assuming that 4,000 km2 is addedto the protected area estate.

The overall Project cost will be approximately US$55.13 million, including US$17 million for goods and
works, US$17 million for operating costs, US$21for consultants and staff appointments. The Bank/GEF
will finance S$5.98 million worth o f consultant expenditures.

FiscalImpact:
The direct Project impact of GEFexpenditures on the operating costs ofthe agenciesconcemed, is
minimal. This is partly because the models being selectedfor expanding the protected areas are based



                                                     -19-

primarily on bringingprivate sector land into conservationrather than the state purchaseo f land. The main
project investments, which would normally requirelong-term maintenanceinclude goods andworks. The
total project cost for goods and works will be US$16.8 millionwith GEF contributiono fjust US$1.20
million. Much o f the capital cost of protected area expansionon state landi s expectedto be madeby sunk
capital contributions from Government and conservationagencies and the private sector.

3. Technical:
The Project design is within the technical capability of the executing and Sub-Executing Agencies. Project
preparation was used to confirm the key threats to the CFR as informant to Project design. Basedon the
threat analysis, the key Project interventions were identified. The linkage betweenthreats to the CFR and
project design is contained inAnnex 12.

The feasibility o fthe Project design was thentested againstthe availability ofresources,the capacity of
agencies to implement the activities as well as the level of riskand sustainability. The final Project design
was tested with various stakeholders involved inexecution and has strong support. Lastly, it was retested
for fit with the C.A.P.E. Program.

Below is a summary of the technical issues consideredinthe design o f each of the Project components:
(i)Institutionalstrengthening. Theprojectpreparationprocessexhaustivelyexaminedthelegaland
institutional mandateso f agenciesconcemed andconcluded that specific strengthening activities are
required. GoSA has already embarkedon severalsignificant legalandinstitutionalreforms that will
support this process, including the Biodiversity Act, ProtectedAreas Act andamendments to the National
Environmental Management Act. All o fthese measuresare due for promulgationinlate 2003l2004. One
of the most significant institutional changes is the expansiono f the mandateo fthe National Botanical
Institute with a responsibility for bioregional planningprograms. The NBIhas already embarked on an
institutional management assessmentand change process to give effect to this. The Project will strengthen
this new role. The capacity-building andinformationmanagementcomponentssupport the emergent
centralized and standardizedapproach that has beeninitiated underthe C.A.P.E. Programandwhich is
already proving its effectiveness.
(ii)ConservationEducation. SouthAfricahasrecentlygiveneffecttoanewconservationeducation
policy which requires conservation education to be included into school curricula. Agencies andNGOs
have lobbied for this change and are poised to support it. The Project addresses the need for a coordinated
environmental education approachtied to measurableeducational outcomes.
(iii)Programcoordination,managementandmonitoring. TheC.A.P.E. Programisaworldleaderin
bioregional mainstreaming supportedby all key governmental andnon-governmental agencies. The
experienceo fthe past two years is that core support is required to facilitate and broker the necessary
relationships, assist partners develop projects and activities and ensurethat opportunities for alignment are
explored. This activity consists of a rapidly expanding set o f sub-projects usinga range of institutionaland
fundingmechanisms. The C.A.P.E. Program provides a one-stop resourceto identifyandtrack the
progress of these activities in order to assess lessons leamt and to support a replication strategy for Phase 2
of the Program. Finally, the activity has beendesignedto report to government and civil society regarding
progress towards C.A.P.E. Program goals. The experience o fmanaging the current suite o f activities has
guided the design ofthe M&Esystem.
(iv) Protected areas. The Table MountainNational Park provides a model for consolidating and
expandingprotectedareas. This model is already beingrolled out inseveral other key intervention sites,
and although requiringcustomized approachesinthe different institutional and socio-economic settings, has
already provedto be effective. The Project design makes provisionto support models such as this inother
proposedprotected areas.
(v) Biodiversity economy and conservation stewardship. DuringProject preparation, and over the past


                                                     - 20 -

two years, a number o f pilots have been developed for the development o f incentives to facilitate
conservation stewardship by landowners. Key lessons have been drawn from both South African and
Australian examples and have been tested in situ inthe CFR. This has proven to be one o f the best means
o f mainstreaming biodiversity indevelopment. The CFR examples are already being used intemationally
as best practice case studies.
(vi) Watershedmanagement. The Project is able to buildstrongly on the favorable policy environment in
South Africa such as the Working for Water program, alien invasive control methods and the advanced
roll-out o f catchment management agencies. The project design ensuresthat incremental funding will
support andbuildon these initiatives.

4. Institutional:
The NBI,through the CCU, and the three Sub-Executing Agencies demonstrate a professional anda high
standard baseline capacity to execute the Project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The NBIwill be the grant recipient andthe WCNCB, SANParks andthe Wildemess Foundation will act as
Sub-Executing Agencies, based on their comparative advantages. The implementingarrangements for each
Project activity are contained inthe Project Implementation Plan for Year 1.

An institutionalassessment was undertakenofthe executing agencies inorder to assesstheir strengths and
weaknesses andthe type o f support requiredto implement the Project: (i)    the NBIwas selected as lead
executing agency because it has a proven track record inProject management, is about to become the new
National Biodiversity Institute, has sound procurement and financial management capacity inthe form o f
the CCU andNBImanagement systems and is supportedby all stakeholders to the Project to perform this
role. It has demonstrated ability to manage the Project preparation phase including large partnerships; (ii)
the Garden Route Initiative includes the Wildemess Lakes National Park which falls under the SANParks
mandate. SANParks has demonstrated ability to execute large and complex protected area projects and
will therefore manage this activity as a Sub-Executing Agency; (iii) Westem Cape Nature Conservation
                                                                      the
Board also has well-established capability inthe Westem Cape, including the Cederberg, and is tasked with
planning andmanaging Provincial protected areas. Like SANParks, it has demonstrated capability to
manage large conservation projects. It will therefore manage the development o f the Cederberg
mega-reserve. It has also agreed to take on responsibilities for executing Project activities where other
agencies lack the project management capabilities andis has strong inter-agency linkages to them. This
includes aspects of components 5 and 6 (Biodiversity Economy andWatershed Management). It has
recently been substantially strengthened with a number o f key contract appointments to Project
implementation. These include positions to manage the Cederberg planning process, to develop new models
for supporting public-private conservation partnerships, and supporting the development o f businesses
based on biodiversity conservation. The WCNCB also has a capable information management unit,
currently supporting the whole C.A.P.E. Program; and (iv) the Wilderness Foundation has been contracted
by the Eastem Cape Government to support execution ofthe Eastem Cape Baviaanskloofmega-reserve. It
is already successfully managing a grant to achieve a portion o f this objective. Project preparation has
indicated that once provided with additional resources, it will be able to fully and successfully implement
the Baviaanskloof mega-reserve activity. Annex 15 lists the components to be supportedby each agency.
4.2 Project management:
The arrangements for project management have been clearly defined between the executing andthree
Sub-Executing Agencies. The NBI will assume overall project management responsibility through the
CCU. The implementation o f certain key activities will be delegated, as described above, to Sub-Executing
Agencies. The Sub-Executing Agencies will be responsible for project management at the activity level.


                                                   -21 -

Eachhas been assessedand broadly found to have sufficient project management capacity. The PIP and
proposed Subsidiary Agreements will further describe the arrangements between the NBIandeach
Sub-Executing Agency. A detailed monitoring and evaluation plan has also beenproduced to monitor
project implementation and performance. The CCU will act as the focal point for the management o f the
Project. It will provide strategic direction and monitor the execution of Project activities both for the Grant
and within the framework provided by the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (CIC) and C.A.P.E.
Coordination Committee (CCC). All cross-cutting Project activities, requiring joint commitment, will be
governed by collaborative working groups under the overall guidance o f the CCU and the CIC. The CIC
will therefore provide the governance framework within which the Project is steered at highlevel between
the parties.

Interms ofthe ImplementingAgency-NBI relationship, the NBIwill assumeresponsibility for
implementingall aspects o f the grant agreements with the Bank and UNDP. However, Project agreements
will exist between the Bank and each Sub-Executing Agency inorder to allow for Bank supervision o f
Bank supported activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no major procurement issues under this Project. The majority o f procurements which are to be
implemented by NBIand the three Sub-Executing Agencies relate to selection o f individual consultants.
All the agencies have existing procedures for the selection of individual staffhonsultants, which are inline
with Section V o f the Bank Guidelines on the selection o f consultants. The other types o f procurement
relate to procurement of minor works (contracts under $50,000 equivalent) and goods such as office
equipment, computers etc, all o f which fall under the `Shopping' procedures.

The NBIhas appointed a highly skilled FinanciaYProcurement Specialist to support both procurement and
financial management activities. The support will include monitoring andcoordination o f procurement
activities that are undertaken by the Sub-Executing Agencies on behalf o f the NBI.

Giventhe less complex nature o f procurements under this Project, overall coordination by NBIand the
acceptable procurement capabilities o f the three Sub-Executing Agencies, the Sub-Executing Agencies will
be able to undertake procurement for the activities delegated to them. It is however envisagedthat a
procurement workshop, for a maximum o f two days, will take place during the first three months o f Project
implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The National Botanical Institute (NBI) will be the recipient and executing agency for the Grant. The NBI
will however delegate certain activities to the three Sub-Executing Agencies.

Withinthe NBI,the CCU is the focal point for the Project. The CCU will be responsible for carrying out
some direct activities, as well as coordinating the work o f the three Sub-Executing Agencies.

The overall conclusions o f the current financial management assessmentare that the proposed financial
management arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirements for financial management. Secondly,
the overall project financial management risk is assessedas low.

A detailed Financial Management Action Plan summarizing key actions is contained inAnnex 6 (B) to this
Project document.




                                                     - 22 -

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project is predicted to have a positive environmental benefit. The Bank has approved the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for the Project (ESMF). It addresses Bank Policies for
Environmental Assessment (EA) OP4.0 1and BP4.0 1and South African Environmental Impact
Assessment (EM) legislative requirements including the similarities between the two; (ii)   the potential o f
Project activities to trigger South African EIA and BankEA and other safeguard requirements; (iii)
capacity buildingneeds o f agencies requiredto implement the ESMF; (iv) EMPrequirements; and (v) the
implementation arrangements for managing the EA process and other safeguards (other thanresettlement
which is addressed separately).

A highcompatibility was found to exist betweenBankEA and South African EIA requirements. The main
difference is that the Bank requirements for environmental management plans (EMPs) are marginally
stricter than in South African legislation. However, inpractice E m s are always required in South Africa
inorder to mitigate potential project impacts.

Regarding the implementation o f Bank safeguards, the few activities that may trigger formal EA processes
are likely to emanate from Component 4 o f the Project. This component involves the consolidation and
expansion o f a number o f protected areas. This includes the provision o f sensitive, small-scale tourism
infrastructure, development o f small and medium size enterprises, as well as provision o f communication
services andinfrastructure upgrading. Activities listed interms o f the South African EIA Regulations,
such as provision o f roads, and changes o f land use will result inthe SA EIA process being triggered.
Should these activities be anticipated to result insignificant negative environmental or social consequences,
or occur ina sensitive environment, relevant World Bank safeguard policies will also be implemented.

Regarding implementation o f the ESMF, it provides for:
0    Determiningwhich Bank Safeguards are triggered and the process for seeking compliance to Bank and
     SA requirements. Agencies will use the screening table, included inthe ESMF, to assist them inthis
     process; and
0    Proceeding with the expanded EA process. This may involve undertaking both the South African
     Scoping and EIA processes or simply undertaking a Scoping process and preparing an EMP.

Whilst the NBIwill be responsible for ensuring compliance with Bank EA requirements, this responsibility
will effectively be managedby the three Sub-Executing Agencies responsible for implementing the three
mega-reserve proposals. The World Bank will be required to provide the relevant approvals for activities
triggered by the ESMF/Bank safeguards.

Regarding training, as the EIA processes beingfollowed are already being extensively applied in South
Africa, little training for Bank EA is envisaged. However, minor provision will be provided incapacity
buildingand institutional strengthening components ofthe Project.

EAs,required interms o fthe Project, will be disclosedto all relevant stakeholders as is currently practiced
and required by South African law.




                                                     - 23 -

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
No EMP is at this stage requiredas no EAs are currently triggered. Instead, the ESMF details the likely
requirements for EMPs, when required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: December 5,2003



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
      It should be notedthat the Project area covers over 90,000 km2and the Project is programmatic in
      nature with specific protected area boundaries not yet decided. Therefore, the design o f the ESMF
      took place through consultation and workshopping with the key executing agents, inOctober 2003.
      The EA and RPFhave subsequently been disclosed inthe Infoshop, Bank library, to over 1,400
      stakeholders registeredon the Project data base andprovided inkey public libraries andoffices o f
      conservation agencies. Stakeholders include government, civil society, NGOs, business and labor
      organizations.

      The consultation and public disclosure process for hture EAs, iftriggered, will be guided by the
      Project's Participatory Framework (See Annex 13) which identifies the following activities inthis
      regard:
      0    Identificationo f key stakeholder groups, including existing C.A.P.E. forums;
      0    Stakeholders notified o f proposed activity through media and networking;
      0    Stakeholders providedwith opportunities to raise issues, concems and suggestions regarding
           altematives to the proposed activity. This could include written comment, meetings and
           workshops, as required;
      0    Records o f comments prepared and circulated;
      0    Feedback providedregarding the integration o f comments into the design or implementation o f
           proposed activities; and
      0    Disclosure o f the final decision.

Where appropriate andor required by law, independent consultants will be appointed to undertake the
above.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
      A M&E system has beendesigned for the overall Project. At the specific site based intervention
      level, specific indicators will be developed for each activity as it enters the detailed design and
      implementation phase. These will include all biophysical and socio-economic indicators identified
      duringEA and EMP preparation. (As indicated previously, the monitoring o f impacts will be a key
      component o f all project EMPs).

      Indicators identified during EA and EMP processes, will be incorporated into the overall Project
      monitoring and evaluation system, which will be managedthrough the CCU.




                                                        - 24 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
developmentoutcomes.
      The Project is designedto have a positive social benefit on inhabitants o f the CFR. The Project's
primary social development outcomeswill remain confined to those communities living inclose proximity
to proposedprotected areas who will benefit from employment opportunities, tourism opportunities and
access to marine resources. Economic benefits are intendedto accrue to land-owners inthe later part of the
Project from the implementation o fmarket-basedmechanismsandincentive activities to support
conservationo fbiodiversity. The Project sets a target to increasenet employment by 20% inkey Project
areas. The detailed business planningfor achieving this target will be designedduring implementation.

      Certain Project activities, such as the expansiono f protected areas, automatically trigger the Bank's
safeguardpolicy, OP4.12 concerning Involuntary Resettlement. Accordingly, a ResettlementPolicy
Framework (RPF), including a Process Framework (PF), for the marine environment, have been developed
for the Project. This framework supplements the requirementso f South African legislation to ensure that
an appropriate approach is followed by all executing agencies.

      The RPF was developedinconsultation with key Executing Agencies. I t provides:
e   An explanation ofthe World Bank Involuntary ResettlementPolicy OP4.12 as it relatesto the Project;
e   An account ofthe Project activities that couldresult inOP4.12 beingtriggered;
0   A description ofthe RPFandPF processesfor the Project, including how RAP'SandPlansofAction
    (POAs) should be designed; and
0   A description ofthe implementation andinstitutional arrangementsthat will apply to the RPFandPF.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
Stakeholderswill participate at a numbero f different levels. Key stakeholders will continue to participate
through the CCC and the CIC as well as through site-basedProject steering committees with local
stakeholders. DuringProject preparation, policy and guidelines for participation were producedto guide
implementation activities. For each activity, and where appropriate, a stakeholder analysis will be
undertakenand relevant participation mechanismsidentifiedandimplemented. Project-based
environmental education, training and capacity buildingopportunities will be made available to individuals
and communities to enablethemto participate effectively inProject activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Extensive collaboration took place with civil society and international and localNGOs duringthe original
preparation o f the CAPE 2000 Strategy and directly with key stakeholdersinthe Project. Relevant NGOs
will be offered opportunities to play pivotalroles inProject implementation, inpartnership with government
agencies, as has already occurred inrelationto the Baviaanskloof (Wildemess Foundation), and fine-scale
conservationplanning(The Botanical Society o f South Africa). Stakeholderparticipationwill be
encouragedand supportedinall aspects o f the Project to ensure effective involvement and commitment.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Key interest groups, communities and local stakeholders will be representedon all relevant Project
committees. Monitoring o f impacts will also take place with corrective actions undertaken where required.
World Bank supervision missions will also monitor social components o fthe Project.


                                                    - 25 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performancein terms of social development outcomes?
DuringProject implementation, the socialandeconomic impacts ofthe Project, includingnetjob gains, will
bemonitoredas apart ofthe M&E system.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                          0  Yes  eNO

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
World Bank safeguardEnvironmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is triggeredby virtue of the fact that the
Project covers a very large area, ina sensitiveglobal biodiversity hotspot and includes a multiplicity o f
interventions. As a result, the Project has developedan ESh4Fthat all Executing Agencies will implement.
Inadditionthe ESMFwill ensure compliance with OP4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP4.36 (Forests),
OPNl 1.03 (Cultural Property) and OP4.12 (Involuntary resettlement).

The ESMF will assist Executing Agencies to screen all projects that could have detrimental environmental
impacts, andto follow a processfor mitigation andmonitoring that meets the requirementsof boththe
World Bankand the GoSA. Inaddition, the principles and policies of the CAPE Participatory Framework
will be upheld.

Natural habitats (OP4.04), is triggeredby virtue o f the fact that the Project is located ina biodiversity
hotspot, though the overall Project is designed to secure this key global asset for fiture generations.
Forestry (OP4.36), is triggered as one o f the proposedprotected areas to be supported is locatedon the
Garden Route and includes portions o fpristine indigenous forest. Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) is
triggeredby virtue ofthe fact that some of the proposedprotectedareas contain rock art and perhapsother
cultural property. Conservation use will clearly help to protect these assets.

Involuntary resettlement (OP4.12) could be triggeredunder the support to the proposedexpansion of the
protected areas inthe CFR (Component 4). Therefore, an involuntary resettlement policy and process
framework have beendeveloped. No resettlementaction plans (RAPS) or plans o f actions (POAs) have
beendevelopedbecause the direct zone of impact has yet to be determined. The Sub-Executing Agencies
will be boundby the RPFthrough Subsidiary Agreements with the NBIto execute RAPSandPOAs as may
be required.




                                                    - 26 -

DuringProject implementation, the CCUwill assist ExecutingAgenciesto screenthe social impacts
associatedwith their activities. Where appropriate, the CCUwill seek World Bankassistance inthis
regard. This will include preliminary social assessmentsduringProject inception, particularly for some o f
the activities associatedwith Component 4.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is consideredto have highopportunity for beingsustainableand a low to mediumriskrating.
It is characterizedby low levels ofGEF investment to baselineandco-financing, relatively robust
institutions to executethe Project as well as growing private and public investment inthe sector. The
Project is designedto ensure that it can be concluded without further GEF investment to continue to
support the operating costs o f Project activities after Project closure. Four key factors have beentaken into
account to ensure sustainability: (i) the baselinefinancial andtechnical capabilities of Executing Agencies
will be developedto meet the new requirementsdescribedinthe Project; (ii)       Project Execution will
primarily take place at the Executing Agency level where responsibility, capacity andknow-how resides;
(iii) Projectwillengagewithresourceusersresponsibleforbiodiversitylossessuchasinthemarine
     the
environment inorder to ensure acceptability and support for new models; and (iv) markets for the provision
o f ecological serviceswill be operationalized andecological provisions will be mainstreamedinto the
productive sectors ofthe economy inorder to develop a new layer of resourcemanagers.

la. Replicability:
The whole Project has beendesigned with a view to scaling up and replicating successfuloutcomes across
the CFR duringand after the Project is completed. Bearinginmindthe programmatic nature ofthe
Project, the replication strategy has beendesigned as a cross cutting issuerather than as a discrete stand
alone activity. The two sub-project development objectives support the replicationstrategy. ie a focus on
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the productive/economic sectors so that replicationand
scaling up activities are catalyzed with relatively little additional continuous support requiredandsecondly,
support to the piloting of new models for site basedconservation management. The Project activities
associatedwith mainstreaming include strengtheningthe institutions taskedwith conservation management,
supporting far greater inter-agency collaboration as well as the disseminating o f information on successful
conservation models. The intentiono f the awarenessraisingcomponent o f the Project is to support the
public andbusiness to make informedchoices about how to limittheir impact on the CFR thereby creating
a long term conservationconsciousnessinthe CFR. The CCU will perform a crucial inter-agency
coordination role as well as through the proposed M&E system, ingathering andanalyzing information on
the success of different interventions andproviding this information to key stakeholders.

The secondsub-objective, supporting andpiloting and adoption new models for conservation management
is also aimed at supporting scaling up and replication. Firstly, new models will be pilotedand testedfor
expanding the protected area network, drawing on lessonslearnt inthe CFR, South Africa and the region.
Private land-owners will be targeted through these models, buildingon the large number o f successful
private conservation initiatives inthe CFR. Secondly, extension support will be provided to land-owners
and farmers to incorporate conservation actions on their land. This support is, basedon current experience,
predicted to have a knock on effect on surrounding land-owners. Support to the municipalities to
incorporate biodiversity considerations into their planning, coupled to the development o f financial
incentive models, will be designedwith replicability inmind. The intention will be to pilot this initiative
with a view to scaling it up once policy agreement is reachedon its roll-out.




                                                       - 27 -

The project monitoring and evaluation system is key to supporting replication and scaling up. Data from
the M&E system will be used to make a cost assessmentanalysis o f the various interventions proposedin
the six components. The monitoring andevaluation and cost assessment analysis will be conducted at two
levels: (i)at the level o f Project performance, the CCU will undertake this against the overall indicators in
the logical framework for the Project (Annex 1). A six-monthly progress report will be presented to the
World Bank, UNDP, the CCC and CIC. This will support adaptive learning and improvement o f the
interventions; (ii)at the level o f the Project's impact, a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
framework has been developed to determine progress towards the goals and targets o f the Project and
attainment o f the goals o f the C.A.P.E. Program. Independent reviews o f Project progress will be
undertaken, at mid-term (late 2006) and at the end o f Phase 1 (late 2008) to guide the adaptive development
o f the Project and preparation andreplication for a Phase 2 project. The key performance indicators
identifiedin Section A2 will act as the triggers to identify the readiness of the Project to apply to the GEF
for a second tranche o f funding and to move to the next phase o f the Program.

The cost effectiveness criteria to be used to assess Project activity impact and scaling up opportunities o f
interventions include: (i)  the success o f the intervention inaddressing the threats and root causes o f
biodiversity losses; (ii)the scaling up requirements o f the intervention including, policy change, financing,
human resource and management requirements; (iii)        the distributional impacts, inparticular at the micro
level on employment andconsumers; and (iv) public support for the intervention. Interventions which
positively meet these criterion will be considered for active support to scaling up and replication.

Interms ofreplication outside ofthe Project area: (i) overall bioregional design ofthe C.A.P.E
                                                          the
Programprovides a model which is already being usedinSouth Africa inthree other projects (Succulent
Karoo, Addo and the Sub-tropical Thicket Biome with others inthe pipeline; (ii) institutional
                                                                                      the
arrangements for implementingthe Project provide a model partnership for cooperative governance inthe
environment sector for other regions; (iii)  the conservation education component will provide a cooperative
model for implementation elsewhere; (iv) the integration o f biodiversity into municipal planning and
creating market-based mechanisms for financing payment for ecological services is intendedto be designed,
piloted and scaled up in subsequent phases o f the C.A.P.E. Program. It will have national andpossibly
international application; and (v) the mechanisms andmodels to be developed to conserve fragmented
landscapes and new protected areas are designed to have wider application inthe CFR, both during and
after Project closure.

For more detailed information, see Annex 15.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The Project is characterized by low to medium risk. Financial management risk is rated as low and
procurement risk as average. Whilst the Project design has assumed a slightly stronger local currency/US$
exchange rate than at present, it is considered realistic, as markets forecast a weaker local currency over
the duration o f the Project.




                                                       - 28 -

                    Risk                     Risk Ratina            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Output 1: Inadequate alignment o f               N       llignment to the Project will be an annual
strategies o f key conservation agencies                 equirement for executing agencies to access
                                                         3EF resources

Output 2: Stakeholders are not committed         N       Jpfront consultations with stakeholders will
to support the conservation education                    nitigate risks
components o f the project

Output3: Stakeholders perceive the               N       3ase strengthening needs, on capacity audits
Project to be a low priority and therefore
do not partake inmanagement
strengthening

Output4: Implementingagencies are not            M       The Project will support agencies to develop
adequately resourced to maintain                         Iarious income eaming opportunities and
protected areas or the concessioning                     igencies themselves will ensure that they do not
programs do not illicit anticipated returns              wer-extend their operations

Output 5: Development planning                   M       levelop cost-effective, easy to use, planning
resources can not support conservation in                ;ystems andensure that key government
fragmented landscapes or GoSA does not                   igencies are part o f design working groups for
support the roll-out o f extended economic               levelopment o fnew financial instruments
incentives to conserve threatened lowland
areas

Output 6: Fire Protection Associations           M       The Project is supporting the development o f an
are under-funded to perform mandates                     werall planto eradicate alien invasive species
                                                         From the CFR which is expectedto support
                                                         2gencies to access government funding for their
                                                          removal. This should assist to meet a
                                                          substantial financial portion o f their mandate
From Componentsto Outputs
Component 1: Lack o f commitment by               N       Provided that the CCC and the CIC remain in
key agencies to the Project                               place andthe Project continues to respond to the
                                                          needs o f Executing Agencies, this risk will be
                                                          mitigated
Component 2: Consensus is not reached             N       Bringall key players into the process o f
on an education strategy                                  designing the strategy upfront

Component 3: Agencies fail to support             N       As incomponent 1above
the Project

Component 4: Resettlement issues retard           M       The RPF has been well designed andthe types
establishment o f protected areas                         o f models proposed for expanding protected
                                                          areas are based on a rights based approach ie



                                                - 29 -

                                                                   usingthe rightsofinhabitants to leverage        '

                                                                   further opportunities
Component 5: Communities unwilling to                  N           Ensureproper consultation with affected parties,
support conservation infragmented                                  provide knowledge support and ensure that
landscapes                                                         proposalsare advantageousto communities

                                                                  I                                                  I
Component 6: New CMAs are not                          M           This is expectedto be a low risk as the CMAs
resourcedto performmandates                                         do have a capacity to levy water users to pay for
                                                                   their operationsthough these still needto be
                                                                    decided
Overall Risk Rating                                    N           N




3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Dueto the highly beneficial impact ofthe Project, it is unlikelyto generate significant controversy.
However, at the local level, issues of public interest canbe expectedto arise. These might include: (i)   the
contestation o f limitations on harvestingo f certain marine organisms (whether legal or illegal) to ensure
that their relentless depletion is abated. Any other issues falling within the ambit o fprotected area
expansion or resettlementcould trigger controversy; (ii)   the continued outsourcing ofprotected area
facilities inwhich conservation agencieshave no comparative advantageis contestedby some as part o f a
general anti-privatization issue; (iii)the development of marketsfor payment for ecological services is
contestedinsome circles for various reasons; and (iv) changes inland-usefrom agricultural use to
conservation land-use is sometimes regardedas a retrogressive step for agricultural development.

G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Below is a list of conditions which the NBIand Sub-Executing Agencies must meet by completing the
necessary actions and receiving Bank approval. These actions needto be completed by less than 90 days
after the grant agreementis signed so that funds can be releasedfor the Project. The NBIand
Sub-Executing Agencies should preferably seek to meet these conditions as soon as possible though at own
risk.
e    Subsidiary Agreements mustbe signedbetweenthe NJ3Iandthree Sub-Executing Agencies
e    Financial managementreport format approved to the satisfaction o fthe Bank

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenants
e    Within 30 working days ofEffectiveness, anNBIcomputerized accounting system willbe installed at
     the CCU'office for usebythe Project's FinanciaVProcurementSpecialist.
e    By approximately, June 1andDecember 1ofeachyear, aproject progressreport will beproduced
     which reports on project outputs and procurement, financial management, status o f safeguards and
     Project institutional arrangements. The report will also contain an update o f the Project
     Implementation Plan (PIP), including a procurement planfor the next six months.




                                                      - 30 -

H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
         o f project implementation.
iXi 1.b) Not applicable.

[? 2. The procurementdocuments for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
iXi 3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
[?4. The followingitems arelackingandare discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):

The Project Management Unit(C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit)has been established, staffed, and has been
operational for two years. There is a Program Coordinator, Program Developer and M&E expert,
Finance/Procurement Specialist, Communications and Community Manager and administrative assistant in
place. Financialmanagement is supportedby the NBIand through the services o f a part-time financial
manager. Staff are appointed on contract to the NBI,with Performance Contracts inplace.
The M&Esystem is inan advanced state o f development. Insome cases, further work is required to
establish baseline information, but all data sources are available. The Conservation Planning Unito f the
WCNCB has been established on site at the NBIto provide IT services for managing the M&E system.

Procurement and Financial Management arrangements have been agreed to and are inplace:

0   Organizational assessment recommendations have been identified and steps are being taken to
     implement these.

0   The draft Procurement Plan has been appraised and found to be satisfactory.

0   The Finance/Procurement Specialist is inplace.

0    The FMR format has been designed andapproved.

0    Audit arrangements have beenconcluded.




                                                     -31 -

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicableBankpolicies.
02.Thefollowing exceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




 histopher James Warner                  kichardG.ScobeTd   -'
Team Leader                              Sector ManagerlDirector    Country ManagerlDirector




                                                  - 32

                                     Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservationand Sustainable Development Project

                         ives
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:             Sector1country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Fostering social and           Reducedrate of biodiversity    Joint WBAJNDP supervision     Political commitment for
environmental sustainability   loss inthe CFR (as measured missions(twice per annum)        project remainshigh
                               by the conservationstatus of
                               priority species and habitats)

                                                              State of Biodiversity Reports
                                                              and M&E reports.


GEF Operational Program:       Outcome I Impact
                               Indicators:
OP 1- Arid and semi-arid       Increasedarea of Lowlands      Formal incorporation          Protectedarea management
zone ecosystems                under protectedarea            agreementsof private land     results inreducedbiodiversity
                               management                     into protectedarea            losses

OP 2 -    Coastal, Marine and Proclamation of two MPAs        Presenceofproclamations and
FreshwaterSystems              and protection of two aquatic managementplans
                               ecosystems

OP 3 - ForestEcosystems        Establishment of Garden        Presenceof Proclamation and
                               Route Initiative               managementplan

OP 4 -    Mountain             Consolidation of montane       as above
Ecosystems                     protected areas in
                               Baviaanskloof, Cederbergand
                               Wildemess


Global Objective:              Outcome I Impact                Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
                               Indicators:
Project Development            All C.A.P.E. signatory          Supervision missions, Project Government remains
Objective: to support the      institutions directly support  Closure Report                 committed to the Project
conservationof the Cape        implementation of the Project
Floristic Region (CFR) and
adjacent marine environment The numberof registeredcivil Review of stakeholder               Private sector andpublic
by laying a sound foundation   society stakeholders           participation in the Project,  commit to the Project
for scaling up and replicating participating inthe Project    coupledto M&E system
successful Projectoutcomes     increases by 30%

                              A CFR-wide conservation         Presenceof CFR wide
                              education strategy is            educationstrategy and survey
                               successfully designedand        of public awareness about
                              implemented across the           importance of the CFR
                              Project area

                              The Baviaanskloof, Cederberg Map extent of public and
                              and GardenRoute protected       private land incorporated
                              areas have beenconsolidated under conservation use



                                                          - 33 -

                            The number ofjobs directly     Monitor increase injobs
                            associated with conservation   through M&Esystem
                            and nature-based tourism in
                            Project intervention sites
                            increasesby 20%

                            Spatial development            Presenceof six spatial
                            frameworks in six              frameworks
                            representative lowland sites
                            incorporate conservation
                            priorities

                            Five-year targets for protected Biodiversity monitoring
                            area status for irreplaceable   includedinto M&Esystem
                            Broad Habitat Unitsin
                            Lowland areas and watersheds
                            are met as defined by the
                            C.A.P.E. 2000 Strategy.

2lobal Biodiversity         At Project closure, C.A.P.E.    Project closure report         Zonservationo f the CFR
lbjective                   signatory institutions commit   indicating the success o f the .emains a priority
The Global Objective is to  to second phase of the          Project based on the M&E
mure that the conservation  C.A.P.E. Program due to the     outcomes and Project
)fCape Floristic Regionand  successful completion o f the   document for Phase 2 o f the
idjacent marine environment Project                         C.A.P.E. Program
s secured by 2024




                                                        - 34 -

                                    KeyIndicators
                                          Performance          Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each               Iutput Indicators:              Broject reports:             :ram Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Sub-Proiect Development
Obiective 1
A foundation is established
for mainstreaming
biodiversity in the CFR into
economic activities

Output 1: Capacitated          nstitutions are able to meet    tegisters from each of the   hrrent institutional
institutions to implement the  lemandto incorporateprivate irotected areas indicate status  rrangementsfor the Project
Project                        and into protected areas        )fland incorporation         emain intact

                               Jse of Projectsupported         Jser surveys of management
                               nanagement systems in the       iystems
                               rariousagencies

Output2: Inhabitants of the    3vil society andprivate         survey report                'he target groupsthroughout
CFR contributing to            :ectorinitiatives support                                    he region are willing to take
biodiversity conservation      :onsewationof the CFR                                        .dvantageof Project
through improved awareness                                                                  ipportunities
raising and environmental
education
                               ncreasedcommunity               4wareness survey
                               iwarenessabout the value of
                               he CFR

Output3: CCU capacitated       'roject partners support the    ?rojectpartners indicate     XU candeliver onProject
to perform Project             X U inPhase2 of the             satisfactionwith CCU during  jartner expectations
coordination function          Z.A.P.E. Program                ?reject supervision and at
                                                               ?reject closure
Sub-Proiect Development
Objective 2
Conservationofthe CFR
enhancedthrough piloting
and adapting models for
sustainable, effective
management

Output4: Protectedareas        'resence of nine expanded       Map and record areas with    >and-ownersand government
establishedas per Project      rotectedarea systems            xotected status              .emaincommitted to
document                                                                                    :xpansion ofthe protected
                                                                                            ireas

Output 5: Biodiversity insix   Zonservationplans               Maps and reports produced    'rivate landwith protected
priority lowland landscapes    mplemented in six Lowland       for six Lowland areas        itatus results in improved
identified and secured in      ireas                                                        iodiversity conservation
conjunction with civil society

Output 6: Biodiversity         'lans developedand              Presence ofplansto remove    [mplementation capacity
concerns are integrated into   mplementedto remove             threats to biodiversity and  :xists in agencies


                                                          - 35 -

watershed management           threats to biodiversity in      eports on implementation
                               watersheds (alien invasive,
                               fire, ecological reserve,
                               estuarine management)

                               Protocol developedfor CFR      :opy of protocol
                               estuarine management




_ _ ~ ~ ~
Project Components I            Inputs: (budget for each       'roject reports:          from Componentsto
Sub-components:                 component)                                               )utputs)
   output 1:
1. Institutional               US$5.8 million
Strengthening
1.1 Enhanceinter-agencv         US$0.32 million                ,egal and institutional    nstitutional commitment at
cooperation and strategic                                      rssessment reports         ,ational,provincial and local
planning for conservation                                                                 :vels to the Project
managementinthe CFR                                            'erformance management
1.1.1 Facilitate the resolution                                eports                     qational policy and
of legal mandates and                                                                     egislation clearly assigns
institutional roles for                                        :MA workplans              egal responsibility of key
conservationof CFR                                                                        iational and provincial
1.1.2 Assess the requirements                                                             biodiversity conservation
of the contributing agencies to                                                           lgencies
meet their agreed mandates
1.1.3 Develop a generic                                                                   igreements on standards and
performancemanagement                                                                     rrotocols for information
systemacross implementing                                                                 nanagement
agencies to ensure alignment
and compliance with C.A.P.E.
Program and Project
1.1.4 Incorporatebiodiversity
concernsinto the strategies
and workplans of five new
CMAs
1.2 Buildcapacitv for                                          rraining needs assessment
effective conservation                                         .eport
managementin the CFR           I
1.2.1 Undertake training,                                      Ygency skills development
basedon participatory                                          .eports
training needs assessment
 1.2.2 Undertake institutional
and training needs assessment
for the establishmentof
EasternCape Nature
ConservationAgency
 1.2.3 Conduct capacity
building program in
conjunction with THETA


                                                          - 36 -

1.2.4 Facilitate and support
the development of a
networked program to attract
and retain new entrants into
conservation management
1.2.5 Undertake skills
development for watershed
and PA management

1.3 Develop financial          JS$O.95 million         :inancia1 needs assessment
sustainability plan                                    .ndplan
1.3.1 Determine the financial
needs of executing agencies
for all conservation
management activities
1.3.2 Identify and select
appropriate hnding
mechanisms and targets for
executing agencies
1.3.3 Assess the contribution
o f protected area tourism to
the sustainability o f
conservation management
programs

1.4 Establish a                JS$0.48 million         nformation management
comprehensive information                               trategy and program report
management svstem
1.4.1 Provide information
management systems outside
protected areas
1.4.2 Develop mechanism for
skills and knowledge transfer

2. ConservationEducation       JS$l.11 million
2.1 Raise awareness and        JS$l .11 million        3iodiversity education      Education authorities and
understanding of biodiversitv                          ,trategyreports             service providers reach
issues and benefits inCFR                                                          consensus on strategy and
2.1.1 Facilitate coordinated                                                       implementation arrangements
environmental education in
the CFR at Project and site
level
2.1.2 Develop and
disseminate materials
focusing on CFR biodiversity

3. Project and Program         JS1.79 million          2.A.P.E. Monitoring and     Willingness o f agencies to
Coordination, Management                               ?valuationreports           cooperate and contribute to
and Monitoring                                                                     the implementationo f the
3.1 Undertake Proiect and      JSS1.79 million         2.A.P.E. Coordination Unit  CAPE Program
program coordination,                                  eports Minutes o f CCC and
management and monitoring                              :IC meetings
3.1.1 Undertake Project and



                                                  - 37 -

program coordination                                :ommunication strategy and
3.1.2 Undertake financial                           iaterials
managementand auditing
3.1.3 Undertake Project and
program management,
coordinated monitoring and
evaluation including cost
effectiveness analysisof
activities and design for
replication
3.1.4 Undertake
communication program

4. Protectedareas              JS$27.72 million
4.1 Establish and consolidate JSs23.37 million      'rotectedarea development  Legal mandates for protected
key protectedareas                                  lans                       area establishment,
4.1.1 Consolidate three                                                        development and managemen
priority large protected areas                      'rotectedarea Strategic    are clearly resolved
4.1.2 Establish two priority                        'erformanceManagement
freshwater and two estuarine                        lystems report              Communities surrounding
protected areas                                                                protected areas are willing to
4.1.3 Establish two priority                        'rotectedarea businessplans engage inparticipatory
marine protected areas,                                                        planning processes
including fisheries                                 danagement plans
co-management arrangements                                                      Changes in access rights to
inthe Kogelberg Marine                                                          resourcesinprotected areas
ProtectedArea                                                                   can be successfullynegotiated
                                                                                with user groups
4.2 Developmentof              JSs4.36 million
sustainable management                                                          Communities in the
effectiveness                                                                   Kogelberg Marine Protected
4.2.1 Design and test a                                                         Area are willing to cooperate
Strategic Performance                                                           to develop improved
Management System inthree                                                       management and monitoring
target PAS                                                                      arrangements
4.2.2 Adapt the EIS model
developedin Cape Peninsula
National Park for other
priority PAS
4.2.3 Develop plans for
responsibletourism intarget
PAS
4.2.4 Facilitate development
of tourism infrastructure and
facilities in target PAS
4.2.5 Develop PASbusiness
plans and mechanismfor
financial sustainability for
target PAS
4.2.6 Implement priority
managementprograms

5. Establishthe foundations JSs11.67 million



                                                  3%
                                                   -

of the biodiversityeconomy
to enhance conservation
stewardship in key lowland
landscapes
5.1 Undertakefine-scale        USs0.62 million        Gne-scaleconservation       Property tax regime favors
conservationplanning                                  )lamingreports              biodiversity conservationon
5.1.1 Undertake fine-scale                                                        private land
conservationanalysis                                  iDF and ISP planning reports
5.1.2 Develop conservation                                                        The importanceof conserving
plans and guidelines                                                              globally significant
                                                                                  biodiversity is understoodby
5.2 Integratebiodiversitv in   US$3.58million                                     authorities andcommunities
land-usedecision-making                                                           inthe priority areas
5.2.1 Integratefine-scale
conservationplans into                                                            There are sufficient skills to
government spatial planning                                                       conduct conservation
5.2.2 Strengthenland-use                                                          planning studies and to build
regulation                                                                        capacity at the local municipal
5.2.3 Build institutional and                                                     level
individual capacity in
municipalities inpriority
areas

5.3 Increaselandowners         US$7.02million         <xtensionservice reports
commitment to conservation
5.3.1 Build extensionservices
andpilot cooperative
management schemes

5.4 Investigateeconomic        USs0.45 million        lraft reports and maps
incentives for enhancing
conservationstewardshiuof
prioritv lowland
5.4.1 Map current land use
economics, and associated
hydrological services
5.4.2 Identity the extent and
location of agricultural land
with the potential to switch to
ecotourism/sustainableuse
5.4.3 Identify the economic
and institutional conditions
that could trigger a switch to
sustainableland uses
5.4.4 Determine the potential
for paymentfor hydrological
services including possible
institutional arrangements
5.4.5 Test economic incentive
mechanismsand institutional
arrangements to encourage
land stewardship(tax
incentives, stewardship trust)



                                                 - 39 -

5.4.6 Disseminate knowledge
to key policy and institutional
role players

6. Integrate biodiversity        JS$7.04 million                  atchment Management      There is a willingness and
concerns into watershed                                           gency agreements         capacity on the part o f the
management                                                                                 new Catchment Management
6.1 Improve watershed            JS$3.26 million                  usinessplans o f CMAs    Agencies to incorporate
management and water                                                                       biodiversity concems into
resource management                                                                        CMAs
6.1.1 Increase the
effectiveness o fthe                                                                       There is timeous recognition
"Ecological Reserve" measure                                                               and commitment to act
inwater resource                                                                           regarding IAS in the CFR
management
6.1.2 Incorporate biodiversity                                                             The legaljurisdiction for the
concems into the new fire                                                                  management o f estuaries is
management system                                                                          clarified

6.2 Improve management o f       JS$2.48 million                  I S management strategy
InvasiveAlien Species                                             :port
6.2.1 Create an IAS
management strategy and
business plan for the entire
CFR
6.2.2 Establish centers o f
excellence for IAS prevention
and management in the CFR
6.2.3 Pilot the control o f
invasive aliens inpriority
ecosystems

6.3 Improve estuarine             JSs1.30 million                 stuarine management
management                                                        rategy report
6.3.1 Design and test a CFR
estuarine management
program, based on relevant
case studies




    * Baseline figure to be establishedfrom various statistics
   # Baseline to be established by analysis in 2003




                                                            - 40 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
    SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservationand Sustainable Development
                                                  Project

The Project has six inter-related components that serve to meet the Development Objective of the Project:
to support the conservation of the CapeFloristic Region (CFR) and adjacent marine environment by
laying a soundfoundation for scaling up and replicating successful Project outcomes.

The Project will achieve this through two Sub-project Development Objectives: (i) thefoundations
                                                                                      laying
for mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy. It containsthree components: institutional
strengthening; involving people; and program coordination managementandmonitoring; and(ii)
undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations in selected biophysical, socio-economic and
institutional contexts with a view to scaling these up. It contains three components: protected area
management;establishingthe foundations of the biodiversity economy to enhance conservation
stewardship; and integrating biodiversity concems into watershedmanagement.

By Component:

Project Component 1. Institutional strengthening US$5.80 million
GEF: US$1.4million CoJnancing: US$4.4million:
                         -                         -       - Total US$5.8million
This componentwill buildon baselinecapacitiesto strengthenthe key institutions supporting the
conservation o fthe CFR both for and beyond the life of the Project. Well-capacitated institutions, with
clear roles andresponsibilities, andwhich coordinate their activities, are required to support mainstreaming
efforts.

Sub-components:

1.1Enhance inter-agency cooperation andstrategic planningfor conservation management inthe
CFR. NBI
GEF: US$0.32million Co-Financing: US$Omillion Total: US$0.32million
                          -                                -
This sub-component entails three activity clusters: facilitating the resolution o f legal mandatesand
institutional roles for conservation o f the CFR assessingthe requirementsof the contributing agenciesto
meet their agreedmandates; anddeveloping a performance managementsystemacross implementing
agenciesto ensure alignment and compliance with CAPE 2000 Strategy. Inparticular it will address the
alignment of the new Catchment Management Agencies and the incorporation o f biodiversity concems into
watershedmanagement(see Component 6).

1.2 Buildcapacity for effective conservation management in the CFR NBI
GEF: US$0.55million Co-Financing: US$3.5million Total: US$4.05million
                          -                                  -
This sub-componententails undertaking training, basedon a participatory training needs assessment;
undertaking an institutional and training needs assessment for the establishment o fthe Eastem Cape Nature
Conservation Agency; conducting a capacity buildingprogram inconjunction with THETA (Tourism and
Hospitality Education and Training Authority); and facilitating and supporting the development o f a
networked program to attract andretain new entrants into conservation management. Itwill also conduct
activity-specific capacity-building across the Project, including for the application o f a participatory
approach, for watershedmanagementand for protected area management.




                                                    -41   -

1.3 Appraise anddevelopstrategiesfor financial sustainability.NBI
GEF: US$0.13million Co-Financing: US$0.82million Total: US$0.95million
                         -                                  -
This sub-component entails determining the financial needs o f implementing agencies for all conservation
management activities; and identifying and selecting appropriate funding mechanisms, targets and
strategies for executing agencies.

1.4 Establisha comprehensiveinformationmanagementsystem. NBI
GEF: US$0.4million Co-Financing: US$0.08million Total: US$0.48million
                        -                                 -
This sub-component will support the further development o fthe C.A.P.E. InformationManagement Unitas
a partnership between key organizations. The Unit's responsibility will be the development and
maintenance o f a centralized data warehouse with standardized protocols for accessing and distributing
information to executing agencies for both protectedareas andlandscape management. An emphasis will
be placed throughout the programon reviewing progress and lessons learnedand ensuring skills and
knowledge transfer.

Project Component 2. Conservation education US$1.11 million
GEF: US$0.6million Co-Financing: US$0.51million Total: US$1.11million
                        -                      -          -
This component will raise awareness and support the development o f an environmental education strategy,
focused on the CFR, inorder to change the behavior o f inhabitants to support its conservation.

Sub-component:

2.1 Raiseawareness and understandingof biodiversityissuesand benefitsinthe CFR. NBI
GEF: US$0.6million Co-Financing: US$0.51million Total: US$l.ll million
                        -                                  -
This one sub-component will establish a conservationeducation focal point inthe CFR for facilitating
coordinated program support at Project and site levels; developing and disseminating materials that focus
on CFR biodiversity and C.A.P.E. Program components to support school curriculum and educators; and
training environmental educators and teachers to use the materials developed.

Specifically, this sub-component will:
2.1.1 Facilitate coordinated conservation education inthe CFR through establishing a multi-stakeholder
conservation education steering committee, establishing a CFR Conservation Education Centre at the
Rhodes University Goldfields Environmental Education Service Centre inGrahamstown, establishing a
formal network o f conservation education service providers inthe region and undertaking reviews o f
lessons leamed inconservation education for application throughout the CFR and
2.1.2 Develop and facilitate the use o f conservation education resources focused on CFR biodiversity,
through reviewing the existing resources and their use, convening o f workshops for teachers and service
providers to further develop conservation education resources focused on the CFR, and facilitating
improvements inconservation education at tertiary level.

Project Component 3. Program and Project coordination, management and monitoring US$ 1.79 million
GEF: US$l.ll million Co-Financing: US$0.68 million Total: US$l.79 million
                         -                                   -                          -
This component will enhance management capacity, effective communication andefficient adaptive
management, resulting inthe integrated development and implementation o f the Project and the C.A.P.E.
Program.




                                                    - 42 -

Sub-component:

3.1 Programand projectcoordination,managementand monitoring.NBI
GEF: US$l.ll million Co-Financing: US$0.68 million Total: US$l.79 million
                         -                                  -
This sub-componentwill support: programcoordination; managementandmonitoring; financial
management; programmanagement; coordinated monitoring andevaluation; a communications program;
and support for stakeholderparticipation inProject activities.

Specifically this sub-component will:
3.1.1 Undertake program coordination, through ensuringthat the major stakeholders continue to interact in
the C.A.P.E. Coordination Committees, buildthe existing capacity ofthe C.A.P.E. Coordination Unitto
act as Program ManagementAgency within the National Botanical Institute, extend coordination activities
inthe EasternCape, facilitate andmonitor the alignment ofC.A.P.E. Implementingagencies andfacilitate
the development o f partnershiparrangements;
3.1.2 Undertake financial managementand auditing, through ensuring compliance with grant agreements
and contracts, identifyinghrtherco-financing for the C.A.P.E. Program, managethe finances o f the
C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit,including developing budgets, procurement plans, preparing financial reports
and submittingclaims for expenditure; managing contracts with Sub-Executing Agencies, and managing
contracts with other serviceproviders;
3.1.3 Undertakeprogram development, program management andcoordinated monitoring and evaluation,
through: convening sub-regional workshops for project identificationanddevelopment; undertaking the
development andmanagemento f a database o f sub-projectsand activities; coordinating the development
and managemento f a monitoring andevaluation system, andmonitoring and ensuring compliance with
environmental and social safeguards; and
3.1.4 Undertake a communications program, through drafting andreviewing anannual communications
strategy; implementingkey components o f the strategy including a quarterly newsletter, e-news bulletins
and information andproject brochures; designingand implementingthe C.A.P.E. Action Partners Program.

Project Component 4. Protected area support US$27.72million
GEF: US$4.12 million Co-Financing: US$23.60 million Total: US$27.72 million
                         -                       -            -
This component will supportthe establishmentofprotectedareas thereby contributingto meeting priority
targets for conservation o fthe biodiversity of the CFR. It will support the establishment of cost-effective
management; support the development and implementation o f tourism plans and support stakeholders to
derive direct and indirect benefits.

Sub-components:

4.1 Establishand consolidatekey protectedareas. WF, SANParks, WCNCB
GEF: US$O.97million Co-Financing: US$22.39 million Total: US$23.36 million
                         -                                    -
This sub-componentwill consolidate and expand priority protectedareas (Baviaanskloof, Garden Route,
Cederberg) with an emphasis on developing the linkages through critically threatenedlowland habitats;
establishing two priority freshwater andtwo estuarineprotected areas; andestablishing two priority marine
protected areas (GardenRoute and Kogelberg). The Project will pilot fisheries co-management
arrangementsinthe KogelbergMarine Protected Area usingspatial set-asides. The baseline o fprotected
areas is detailed inTable 1to Annex 12. The Project will seek to expandthe area underprotectionby
4,000km2.




                                                     - 4 3 -

4.2 Develop sustainable management effectiveness. WF, SANParks, WCNCB
GEF: US$3.16million       - Co-Financing:    US$1.20million Total: US$4.36 million
                                                              -
This sub-component will entail designing andtesting a Strategic Performance Management System inthe
key three protectedareas; developing plans for responsible tourism andvisitor impact mitigation;
facilitating development of tourism infrastructure and facilities; developing protected area business plans
and mechanisms for financial sustainability; implementing highimpact management programs; and
undertaking skills development for protectedarea management.

Project Component 5. Establishing the foundations of the biodiversity economy to enhance conservation
stewardship in key lowland landscapes.
GEF: US$2.45 million Co-Financing: US$9.22million Total: US$11.67million
                          -                - US$11.67million -
This component will develop andpilot economic incentives to induce changes inlanduse behavior infavor
o f conservation stewardship, especially inthreatened Lowland areas.

Sub-components:

5.1 Undertake fine-scale conservation planning in priority areas. WCNCB
GEF: US$0.62million Co-Financing: US$Omillion Total: US$0.62million
                          -                                 -
This sub-component entails undertakingfine scale conservation analysis infive priority areas: Riversdale,
Niewoudtville, Upper Breede River Valley, North West Sandveld, and the West Coast lowlands, including
Saldanha Peninsula. As the priority South East Lowlands are a potential recipient o f CEPF funds, they are
excluded from this activity. The fine scale planning will inform other sub-components, and form the basis
for priority actions to secure the protection o f the most important sites.

5.2 Integrate biodiversity into land-use decision-making. NBI
GEF: US$O.68million Co-Financing: US$2.9million Total: US$3.58million
                          -                                   -
This sub-component will entails integratingfine scale conservation plans into government spatial planning,
buildinginstitutional and individual capacity inmunicipalities inpriority areas, andstrengthening
regulation inland-use planning.

5.3 Increase land-owner commitment to conservation. WCNCB
GEF: US$O.7million Co-Financing: US$6.32million Total: US$7.02million
                         -                                    -
This sub-component entails testing and refining non-fiscal incentives, buildingcoordinated extension
services andpiloting cooperative management schemes inpriority areas.

5.4 Improve understanding and design protocols for implementing economic incentives that trigger
improved landstewardship. NBI
GEF: US$0.45million Co-Financing: US$Omillion Total: US$O.45million
                          -                                 -
This sub-component will (i)map current land-use economics andassociated hydrological services; (ii)
identify the extent and location o f agricultural land with the potential to switch to ecotourisdsustainable
use; (iii) identify the economic and institutional conditions that could trigger a switch to sustainable land
uses; (iv) determine the potential for payment for hydrological services including possible institutional
arrangements; and (iv) test and refine fiscal and non-fiscal incentives.




                                                      - 44 -

Project Component 6. Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management US$7.04 million
GEF: US$1.32million Co-Financing: US$5.72million Total: US$7.04million
                           -                                    -                    -
This component will ensure that biodiversity considerations are integratedinto watershed management, in
particular inorder to remove the key threats to biodiversity.

Sub-components:

6.1 Improvewatershed management andwater resourcemanagement.WCNCB
GEF: US$0.32million Co-Financing: US$2.88million Total: US$3.2million
                           -                                  -
This sub-component entails increasingthe effectiveness ofthe "Ecological Reserve" measure inwater
resource management; incorporating biodiversity concerns into the new fire management system; and
incorporating biodiversity concerns into water conservationlwater demand management programs.

6.2 Improvemanagement of invasive alienspecies(IAS). NBIandWCNCB
GEF: US$0.48million Co-Financing: US$2.00million Total: US$2.48million
                           -                                  -
This sub-component entail creating an IAS management strategy and business planfor the entire CFR.
(NBI); establishing centers o fexcellence for IASpreventionandmanagement inthe CFR (NBI);and
piloting the control o f invasive aliens inpriority ecosystems (WCNCB).

6.3 Improveestuarinemanagementprogram.NBI
GEF: US$0.52million Co-Financing: US$0.84million Total: US$1.36million
                           -                                    -
This sub-component entails designing and testing a CFR estuarine management program, based onrelevant
case studies.




                                                      -45-

                                            Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservation and Sustainable Development Project



  Institutionalstrengthening UNDP     -                                                                                                        5.80
  Conservation education            - UNDP                                                                                                      1.11
  Program Coordination, Management andMonitoring WB                     -                                                                       1.79
  Protected areas - WB                                                                                                                       27.72
  Biodiversity economy and conservationstewardship WB                  -                                                                     11.67
  Watershedmanagement               - WB                                                                                                       7.04
  Total Baseline Cost                                                                                                                        55.13
   Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                      0.00
   Price Contingencies                                                                                                                         0.00
                                                                                                    49.63      1         5.50                55.13
 I                                       Total Project Costs1
                                             Interest during construction                                                0.00                   0.00
                                    Total Financing Required                                        49.63      I1        5.50                55.13




  Goods                                                                                                9.07                  1.20                  10.27
  Works                                                                                                6.00                  0.62                    6.62
  Consultant Services                                                                                 17.19                  1.90                  19-09
  Operating Costs                                                                                     14.77                  1.60                  16.37
  Workshops                                                                                            2.60                  0.18                    2.78
                                                         Total Project Costs1                         49.63                  5.50                  55.13
                                                 Interest during construction                                                0.00                    0.00
                                                 Total Financing Required                             49.63                  5.50                  55.13

    I
     Identifiabletaxes andduties are 10.75 (US$ni)and the total projectcost, net of taxes, is 44.38 (US%m).Therefore,the projectcost sharingratio is 20.28%
    of total projectcost net of taxes.




                                                                     -46-

                                  Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservationand Sustainable Development Project

 1.National development objectives

 South Africa is strongly committed to the pursuit of sustainabledevelopment. The country's primary
 challenge is to ensure social andeconomic upliftment, and inparticular, to create new employment
 opportunities and systematically addressthe root causes o f poverty. The GoSA is highlycommitted, within
 this context, to biodiversity conservationwhich is systematically beingrealignedto this primary objective.
 The country's astonishing species richnessandbiogeographic turnover amplifythe magnitude ofits
 conservation challenge. While the GoSA appropriates substantialfunding directly to conservation
 management, this is insufficient to establisha biologically representativeconservation estate on public,
 private and community lands, mainstreamedinto the sustainabledevelopment framework. The State is
 seeking financial and technical assistance from the intemational community to advance its global
 conservation agenda by defraying the highone-time costs associatedwith buildingthe necessary
 institutional, social and economic capital and managementframeworks. The aim is to align such
 investment with its broader sustainable development strategiesand programs.

 2. Global environmental objectives

 The CFR is an exceptionally rich storehouseofbiodiversity, characterizedby highfloristic species
 richness, beta and gamma diversity, fragility and irreplaceability. One o f six recognized Plant Kingdoms,
 the CFR is the only Plant Kingdomlocatedentirely withinthe boundariesofa single nation. The region's
 uniquenessmakes it one ofthe highest global conservation priorities and South Africa shoulders a special
 responsibility for its stewardship on behalf of the global community. There is presently, however, a very
 real riskthat accelerating anthropogenic pressures on the system, ifleft unchecked, will result ina loss of
 biodiversity. The GoSA is committedto conserving the CFR's biological heritage but lacks the financial
 andtechnical resourcesandknow-how neededto hlly operationalize a comprehensive, performance-driven
 conservation program. A national Programmatic Framework for conservation action, known as Cape
 Action for People and Environment (the C.A.P.E. Program) has beendeveloped. The Global
 Environmental Objective o f the Program, which underpinsthe rationale for GEF assistance, is to ensure
 that by the year 2024 a representativesample of the CFRs biological diversity is effectively conserved, and
 where appropriate is restored.

 3. Baseline scenario

 The principal threats to biodiversity inthe CFR stem from habitat conversion, colonization by alien
 invasive species, uncontrolled fires, andunsustainableofftakes o f certain commercially important wild
 resources. These threats are describedinAnnex 12. The CAPE 2000 Strategy has identifieda suite o f
 interventions neededto arrest anthropogenic pressures andprotect areas o f global conservation importance.
 The baselinecourse of events, over five years without the Project andGEF support may be characterized
 as follows:

 Institutional strengthening: The GoSA is embarking on a series o f institutional reforms to clarify mandates,
 roles and structures within and between government agencies. However, there are no plans to address
 systemic and institutional capacity weaknesses for the management o f biodiversity at the bioregional scale,
 implyingthat the conservation functions ofdifferent institutions will remainpoorly coordinated. Various
 conservation agencies would appropriate funds for skills development (US$ 1.07 million); this is



                                                      - 4 7 -

inadequate,relative to need, interms of creating the skills requiredfor effective implementation o fthe
C.A.P.E. Program by government andnon-government agencies. A Wher US$2.85 million will be
allocated to data base management, includingfor the procurement o fhardware and software andthe
development o f decision support systems. However, datamanagementsystems wouldremainpoorly
coordinated, with little quality standardization.

Conservation education: A total of US$0.63 millionwould be allocated for curriculum development and
teacher training. However, no specific provisionis being made to integrate CFR specific biodiversity
issues into the curricula, nor to develop quality materials dealing with these issues. A total o f US$0.58
million would be expendedon educationby conservationauthorities. This would be dedicatedtowards
designingandupdating visitor interpretation materials. As interpretation centers are locatedmainly in
protected areas and botanical gardens, the exposure of rural communities anddisadvantagedgroups will be
limited. Finally, a sum ofUS$0.75 million would be appropriatedtowards generalenvironmental
education, dealing mostly with 'brown environment issues' such as waste management.

Program coordination, managementandmonitoring: An effective program coordination mechanismwould
be lacking as neededto ensure synergiesbetweenthe conservationactivities of different government and
non-government agencies. This will result ina sub-optimal utilization o f scarce financial and technical
resources. A numbero fbiodiversity monitoring initiatives would continue, including helicopter-based
game counts andtransect surveys inselectedprotectedareas (cost: US$3.5 million). The utility ofthese
initiatives would be limitedas they do not make adequate provision for socio-economic assessmentsnor for
ecoregional scale consolidation. A more comprehensivesystem is neededto monitor pressure, state and
response. Further, insufficient resourcesexist for undertakingcost benefit analysis for scaling up and
replication o f lessons learnt for Phase 2 o f the C.A.P.E. Program.

Protected areas: Protected area (PA) managementauthorities (SANparks, WCNCB, DEAET, DEAT)
would allocate sizable resourcestowards the recurrent costs o f managing protected areas (mostly terrestrial
sites) throughout the CFR (US$59 million). This allocation would support a public protected area estate o f
10,800 km2, relative to a target o f 16,632 km2, neededto effectively conserve a biologically representative
sample o fbiodiversity. A further 22,288 km2 of private lands will needto bemanagedfor conservation.
A total ofUS$5.4 millionwould be allocated to the development ofnature-basedtourism activities ina
small numbero f protected areas. Tourism development would concentrate ina few sites with little
diffusion, meaning that prospects for bankingon the sector to provide conservation livelihoods inareas o f
biodiversity significance will remain poor. Also, there is little guaranteethat any investment insuch areas
would be compatible with or contribute to site-specific objectives. A hrtherUS$1million would be
allocated towards the purchaseo f land. Landwould be acquired inan ad hoc manner,without necessarily
reflecting the highest conservation priorities. Thus while the PA systemis expectedto gradually expand, it
is unlikely that expansion would facilitate the consslidation o f PASacross critical ecological landscapes.
Many key ecosystems would remainunder-representedinthe network, including inparticular, wetlands and
coastal areas.

A total of US$14.8million would be allocated by DEATandother responsibleauthorities towards the
management o f inshore fisheries. Management would be effected through traditional means under a weak
enforcement framework, including stock assessments, gear restrictions and seasonal closures, rather than
through ecosystem-basedapproaches. There is anunmet needto develop multiple-use marineprotected
areas to accommodate biodiversity conservation objectives while allowing sustainable fishery utilization.

Biodiversity economy and conservation stewardship: A sizeableinvestmentis plannedinthe development
o f IntegratedDevelopment Plans at the municipal level (est. US$14.6 million). These include a spatial


                                                       -48-

component, and are intended to provide a mechanism for coordinating development investments in
infrastructure and services at the local-level. However, limitedfundingwould be available for fine-scale
planning, to map the precise locationo f important landparcels andto investigate new financial instruments
to conserve these areas. The lack o fprecise maps and essential planning capacities would result ina weak
reflection o f Conservation objectives and priorities inthe IDPs. This would compromise efforts to
mainstream biodiversity management into the agricultural sector. Finally, an estimatedUS$2.6 million
would be expended instrengthening local extension services. However, there would be very limited
capacity inthese outfits to service conservation needs. Further, development and implementation o f
public-private sector models to incorporate landinto conservation use would be neglected.

A total o fUS$15 millionwould be expended on environmental impact assessmentfor major private sector
developments. General environmental standards would be utilized, which are poorly tuned to specific
biodiversity conservation needs. Further, such environmental impact mitigation would largely be pursued
through 'command andcontrol' mechanisms, rather than through employment o f market mechanisms, and
voluntary compacts with key businesses. A sizeable non-GEF investment is planned to develop small,
medium and micro enterprises. The total anticipated budget is US$16.47 million.

Watershed management: The State is making significant investments inwatershed and water resource
management. The total baseline allocation is estimated at US75.6 million. This includes allocations for
the control o f alien woody plants in catchments, hydrological assessments,demand-side management and
pollution control. There is a major unmet need to integrate key biodiversity conservation imperatives into
the baseline program. This includes expanding the focus o f invasive alien species (IAS) control to include
currently un-targeted species and improving the cost efficiency o f existing control measures, such as
through induction o f bio-control methods, to free up funds to address currently uncontrolledgroups o f IAS.
Further there is a needto make proper provision for ecological reserve requirements incritical wetlands, in
allocating water. Finally, there is a need to addressbiodiversity conservationmanagement needs in
estuaries, which have hitherto been neglected.

Baseline scenario costs: The total baseline scenario costs are estimatedat U S 2 1 3 million over five years
to be provided by different sources o f flmding(see Tables 1and2 below). It is important to note that the
baseline estimate is conservative. The Project Task Team were o f the view that whilst significant private
land andprivate sector initiatives are underway inthe CFR, there is no reliable way o f assessing the
conservation effectiveness o f these investments and for realistically modelling expansion. Therefore, they
are excluded from the baseline calculations.

4. GEF alternative

This proposal is one o fthree complementary initiatives, to be supportedby the GEF, under the national
C.A.P.E. Program, aimed at realizing the afore-mentioned Global Environmental Objective. The Project
will implement priority actions identified inthe C.A.P.E. Program above the baseline scenario so as to
progressively mitigate human-induced threats to the CFR's globally significant biodiversity. C.A.P.E.
Program is being implemented inthree distinct phases.

The first Phase o f five years aims at creating the underlying policies, institutional framework andcapacities
needed to implement the C.A.P.E. as well as to pilot new conservation approaches (site based interventions)
to addressthe spectrum o f conservation needs andmanagement challenges inthe CFR. The Project will
strategically support a number o f Phase 1 interventions with a view towards assuring effective execution o f
the C.A.P.E Program and fostering conditions for replication. It will achieve this through two



                                                       -49-

sub-developmentobjectives and implementingsix Project components:

Sub-development Objective 1: Capable institutions cooperate to develop a foundation for
mainstreaming biodiversity in the CFR into economic activities

Component 1: Institutionalstrenahening(UNDP) GEF alternative USS5.8 [GEF finding USSl.41

The GEF will provide incremental funding to ensure better alignment betweenthe operations ofdifferent
institutions inadvancing the C.A.P.E. Program. This includes the integration o fbiodiversitymanagement
objectives into strategies, business plans, and annual work plans, such as for the five new Catchment
Management Agencies [GEF: US$O.32m]. GEF finding is beingrequestedto design and deliver a
comprehensivetraining program for conservation skills upliftment; significant co-financing is being
suppliedby THETA [GEF: US$0.55m; Co-fin: US$3.5m]. A medium-term financial sustainability plan
for biodiversity conservation operations inthe CFR will be prepared [GEF: US$O.13m; Co-fin:
US$0.82m]. Finally, informationmanagementactivities will be consolidated andimproved, to enhance the
utility ofdataand diffusion ofknowledge to end-users [GEF: US$0.4m; Co-fin: US$.O8m].

Component 2: Conservation education (UNDP) GEF alternative US$1.11 [GEF funding US$O.6]

The GEF will h defforts to coordinate conservation specific education programs [GEF: US$0.37m], and
for the preparation o f resourcematerials for schools and educational centers and associatedteacher training
[GEF: US$0.23m; Co-fin: US$O.17m]. These activities are incremental to the baseline. Co-financing
(US$0.34) has been securedto impart conservation education to students at schools and educational
centers.

Component 3: Program coordination, management, monitoring and replication WB) GEF alternative
US$1.79 [GEF fimding US$l.111

Activities are incremental to the baseline. The GEF will provide fundingto staff and to the C.A.P.E.
Coordination Unit, to coordinate interventions spearheadedunder the Project andto ensure appropriate
financial management [GEF: US$0.85m; Co-fin: US$0.49m]. A monitoring andevaluation systemwill
be set upto undertake cost benefit analysis for advancing the Program as a basis for facilitating adaptive
management. This activity will also be responsiblefor the design of the replicationstrategy at end of Phase
1basedon lessons leamt. This will be basedon an independentassessment o f the success o f the Project
andreadinessto move to Phase 2. [GEF: US$O.l6m; Co-fin: US$O.lm]. Finally, a communications
systemwill be set up for the C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit [GEF: US$O.lOm; Co-fin: US$O.O8m]. These
inputsare incremental. Discussions are underway to increasegovernment contributions.

Sub-development Objective 2: Conservation of the CFR enhanced through piloting and adopting
models for sustainable, effective management.

Component 4: Protected areas (WB) GEF alternative US$27.72 [GEF hdingUS$4.12]

Fundingwill be allocated to consolidate and strengthenmanagementsystems inthreepriority terrestrial
PAS;namely the Baviaanskloof, Cederbergand GardenRoute (meriting differentmanagement approaches),
and establishingtwo priority freshwater, two estuarine, and two marine protected areas. The GEF will
provide funding for management planning, the development o fvisitor management plans, and Strategic
PerformanceManagement Systems. Support will also be provided to secure private landunder
conservationmanagement. Private and public landto the value ofUS$5 million is conservatively expected


                                                    - 50 -

to be secured inthis manner. Income earning private sector investment intourism and environmental
infrastructure inprotected areas o f approximately US$10 million is anticipated.

Co-financing has been secured from the GoSA andNGO sector for protected area operations, including for
staffing, equipment and operational costs for boundary demarcation, IAS andfire management, and key
infrastructure (ranger posts, visitor facilities, interpretation). [GEF: US$0.97m; Co-fin: US$22.4m].
These activities will generate largely global benefits over the medium term. Inthe longer term, tourism
development at the target sites is expected to generate domestic co-benefits, justifyingthe national funding
contribution.

Inmarineprotectedareas, activitieswill includethedesignandpilotingofpilotfishery set-asides
co-management arrangements for sustainable utilization o f living coastal resources andbiodiversity
conservation. The GoSA will finance the costs o f capital acquisition and o f enforcement services for the
pilots. The GEF will hndthe incremental costs o fremoving knowledge barriers to effecting sustainable
utilization o f inshore fisheries through spatial management means, and thus to mainstream biodiversity
management inthe artisanal fishery sector. Inthe long-term, these demonstrations are expectedto increase
fishery productivity through an increase inspawning biomass inrefugia and spillover effects. The
domestic co-benefits derived from the pilot will provide a vehicle for ensuring the financial sustainability o f
management. [GEF: US$3.12m; Co-fin: US$1.2m].

Component 5: Biodiversity economy andconservation stewardship CWB) GEF altemative U S $ l1.67 [GEF
fimding US$2.45]

The GEF will allocate funds to undertake fine-scale planning, to map habitat patches and potential
corridors infive to six priority areas, identified as Lowland conservation priorities inthe CAPE 2000
Strategy [GEF: US$0.62m]. The GoSA will fundthe development o f integrated conservation and
development plans inthese areas. The GEF will fund capacity buildingactivities to enhance the ability o f
local area planners inmunicipalities at these sites to accommodate biodiversity conservation needs inlocal
planninganddecision-making, including for the execution o f incentives measures (rates rebates). [GEF:
US$0.98m; Co-fin: US$2.9m]. The GEF will finance efforts to buildthe capacity o f extension officers in
these areas to impart biodiversity management advice to land-holders with a view to facilitating formal
conservation agreements. The GEF will allocate funds to enhance understanding o f economic incentives to
induce changes inland user behavior infavor o f conservation stewardship. This will include: (i)      mapping
current land-use economics and associated hydrological services; (ii)    identifying the extent and location o f
agricultural landwith the potential to switch to ecotourisdsustainable use; (iii)  identifying the economic
and institutional conditions that could trigger a switch to sustainable land uses; (iv) determining the
potential for payment for hydrological services including possible institutional arrangements; andtesting
and refining fiscal and non-fiscal incentives [GEF: US$O.45m].

Component 6: Watershed management CWS) GEF alternative US$7.04 [GEF hndingUS$1.32]

The GEF will allocate funds to develop, test and adapt protocols and tools for incorporating biodiversity
concerns into water catchment management. This includes establishing ecological reserve requirements for
important wetlands, and strengthening fire management systems andprotocols [GEF: US$0.3m, Co-Fin
US$2.9m]. GEF andnon-GEF funding (from the GoSA) will be appropriated towards the development o f
an overall strategic plan, across all taxonomic groups, for I A S control. The GEF will provide funding to
test novel control technologies, and establish safeguards for species not currently subject to effective
control. The GoSA will replicate successful approaches [GEF: US$0.48m; Co-fin: US$2m]. For
estuarine management, the GEF will pilot novel approaches to cooperative govemance (local communities


                                                        -51   -

 and multi-institutional) and integratedmanagement [GEF: US$O.54m] while the GoSA will handle the
 technical aspects underpinning the new management system [US$0.82m].

 IncrementalCosts and Benefits:

 The systems boundary is defined spatially by the CFR's geographic boundary, spanning an area of 90,000
 km2withinthe Westem Cape and EastemCape Provinces. The systems boundary is defined temporally by
 the life of the Project. The GEF will provide funding for activities that generate clear global benefits, and
 can not bejustified solely on account o f domestic benefits. These benefits are diffuse, and distributed over
 long time-horizons, and will not ordinarily be pursued solely inthe national interest. Co-financing has been
  secured for activities producing substantial co-benefits (global + domestic benefits). The baseline,
 comprising activities that will be pursued irrespective o f Project investment, has been estimated at
 US$213.15 million. The baseline cost estimate omits baseline costs attached to complementary GEF
  interventions inthe CFR, aimed at supporting the C.A.P.E. Program, including the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas
 Biodiversity Initiative (ABI) andthe Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund. The Alternative has been costed
 at US$268.28 million. The GEF will fund incremental costs, amounting to US$11 million, exclusive o f
 preparatory assistance. Co-financing o f US$44.13 million has been leveraged for the Alternative
 (exclusive of preparatory assistance). Table 1includes UNDP/GEF financing amounts.


I Table 1: Cost sumn
I US$ costs in million




  strengthening
  Conservation
  education
  Program
  support
  PAmanagement
  Identifying and
  securing
  biodiversity in
  priority areas
  Integrating
  biodiversity into
  watershed
  management
  Total                  213.15          268.28              11                44.13             55.13




                                                      - 52 -

         IncrementalCost Matrix
~ Component       Cost         Cost(million   Domestic benefit               Globalbenefit
                  category     US$)
  Component 1: Baseline        Total = 3.92
  Institutional
  strengthening IIGEF          Total = 9.72

                               GEF: 1.4       Programmatic synergies         Improvedcapacity for long
                               THETA: 3.5     assure cost-effective delivery  term sustainability o f
                               SANParks: 0.82 of national BDconservation      conservation interventions at
                               Fynbos Forum:  commitments through            the systemic level to manage
                               0.08           development programs            global biodiversity
                               Total: 5.8
                               Total = 1.96
  Conservation
  education
                               Total = 3.07
 I               GEF
                IAltemative
                               GEF: 0.6       Expanded access within rural/   Enhancedawareness o f
                               DEAT:0.51      disadvantaged communities to    conservation values amongst
                               Total: 1.11    education on `green' issues     decision-makers andcivil
                                              pertinent to their livelihoods  society; new collaborative
                                                                              management mechanisms
                                                                              enlist a new constituency for
                                                                              BDmanagement
  Component3:
  Program         Baseline     Total = 2.8
  coordination,
  management
  and
  monitoring
                  GEF          Total = 4.59  I
                               GEF: 1.11                                       Monitoring Systems inplace
                               NBI/DEAT:      d a                              to measure pressure, state and
                               0.68                                            response o f global
                               Total: 1.79                                     conservation investments.
                                                                               Replicationstrategy


  Protected
  areas          I

                 ~GEF          Total = 107.92

                               GEF: 4.12      Improved cost recovery           System o f PAS, including new


                                                  - 53 -

                           SANParks: 2.2   mechanismsfor PAS,and cost models, establishedto
                           WCNCB: 4.44     effectivenessinservice         conserve global biodiversity
                           DEAT:0.74       delivery
                           MCM: 1.2
                           Private: 15.02
                           Total: 27.72
 Component 5:,,,
1Biodiversity  Baseline    Total = 48.67
 economy and
1conservation
 stewardship
~


                           Total = 60.34
               Altemative
               Increment   GEF: 2.45        The ecological sustainability Integrated spatial plans
                           Local Gov't: 6.1 of local area development is  provide a framework for
                           Private: 2       enhanced                      mainstreaming global BD
                           Ford F: 0.12    New management                 objectives into irreplaceable
                           Private: 1       arrangements provide for      habitats. New incentive
                                            better stewardship of natural measureshelp mitigate threats
                           Total: 11.67     capital stocks important to   to global ecosystems and
                                            welfare                       uncover tangible new
                                                                          conservationincentives
 Component 6:
 Watershed    IBaseline    Total = 75.6

                           Total = 82.64
               Altemative
                           GEF: 1.32        Efficiencies inIAS controls   IASmanagementexpandedto
                           DWAF: 5.72       improves impacts              address species threatening
                           Total: 7.04      per-unit-input                native biota, andthe
                                                                          minimumecologicalreserves
                                                                          of threatenedwetlands are
                                                                          maintainedto secure global
                                                                          BD
 Total        /Baseline    JS $213.15

I              IGEF        U S $268.28
              IAltemative
 Incremental    GEF        gon GEF
                              -             Total
 cost
  FullProject   11         44.13           55.13
                0.32       0.32             0.64
I Preparation
 Grand Total  I 11.32      44.45           55.77




                                                - 54 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservationand Sustainable Development Project
                                           Years Ending


                                                      IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD .
                           I   Year1 I   Year2    I  Year3     I  Year4    I  Year5     I  Year6   I Year7  I
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs                1.7         7.0          7.5         8.0          8.0         6.9     3.5
 Recurrent Costs                  0.4         2.0          2.0         2.5          2.5         2.0     1.o
Total Project Costs               2.1         9.0          9.5        10.5          10.5        8.9     4.5
            Interest during       0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0     0.0
              construction
Total Financing                   2.1         9.0          9.5        10.5          10.5        8.9     4.5
Financing
   IBRDllDA                       0.1         1.5          1.5         2.0          2.0         1.4     0.5
  Government                      1.o         4.0          5.0         5.0          5.0         5.0     2.5
       Central                    0.5         2.0          3.0         3.0           3.0        3.5     2.0
       Provincial                 0.5         2.0          2.0         2.0          2.0         1.5     0.5
   Co-financiers                  1.o         3.5          3.0         3.5           3.5        2.5      1.5
User FeeslBeneficiaries           0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0     0.0
Other                             0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Project Financing           2.1         9.0          9.5        10.5          10.5        8.9     4.5
Mainassumptions:
   Main assumptions: Public and private investment incurs recurrent expenditure of approximately22%
   per annum for project duration.




                                                 - 55 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservationand Sustainable Development Project

 Procurement

 Procurementresponsibilities

 The National BotanicalInstitute(NBI) andthe Sub-Executing Agencies (South AfricanNational Parks
 (SANParks), Westem Cape Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB) andWilderness Foundation (WF) will
 be responsiblefor carrying out the procurement o f goods and services. The NBIwill provide supervision
 o f contractsunderwhich the Sub-Executing Agencies performtheir responsibilities. The NBIand
 Sub-Executing Agencies are expectedto work with a variety o f partners inthe Project, including for-profit
 companies and non-profit organizations.

 Procurementprocedures

 Procuremento f goods, works, andservicesby the Nl3I and Sub-Executing Agencies will be carried out
 following Annual Procurement Plansagreedwith the Bank as part o f the Annual Work Plan. Procurement
 o f goods and works will be inaccordancewith the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans
 and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised inJanuary andAugust 1996, September 1997 andJanuary 1999)
 (hereafter referred to as the "Procurement Guidelinesly andprocurement o f Consulting Services will be in
 accordancewith the Bank's "Guidelinesfor Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
 Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 andMay 2002) (hereafter referred to as
 the "Consultants guidelines'y. The Bank's StandardRequestfor Proposals(RFP) will beused for
 Consulting Services under QCBS and Selection by Consultants Qualifications. A draR Procurement Plan
 was finalizedduringthe appraisal o f this Project. As the Project contains no procurement where
 Intemational Competitive Bidding(ICB) will be usedand there are no major international consultancies
 foreseen, a General ProcurementNotice (GPN) will not be required. The following summarizesthe
 procurementmethodsto be used

 Goods

     e    Goods to the value o f US$0.25 million will be purchasedby the Project. Contracts for goods,
          equipmentand services estimatedto cost US$30,000 US$250,000 equivalent per contract will be
                                                                 -
          procuredusingthe National Competitive Procedureswhich are acceptable to the Bank and which
          are inaccordancewith paragraphs3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines;

     0    Contracts for goods, equipment and services estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per
          contract will be procuredusingthe Shopping Procedures inaccordance with paragraphs3.5 and
          3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines, and in accordance with the notes on Guidance on Shopping
          which was made available to the NBIProject team and all the Sub-Executing Agencies - the
          GuidanceNotes are available in this address:
          http://web.worldbank,org;~BSITE/EXTERNAL/PROJECTS/PROCUREMENT/O,,contentMDK:
          20105663-menuPK93977-pag;ePK.84269-piPK:6000 1558-theSitePK: 84266.00.html

     0    Contracts will not be deliberately split to avoid usinga specific procurement method.




                                                       - 56 -

ConsultantServices

The NBIand Sub-Executing Agencies will obtain consultant services inthe form o f technical assistance,
facilitation, and planning advice through consultant contracts with f m s , NGOs and/or universities, and
individuals. These consultants will assist the NBIand Sub-Executing Agencies ina suite o f activities such
as: project management, formulating an IEMS, MIRS, fine-scale conservation planning, social, legal,
economic information, training, conservation education, monitoring and evaluation and management
associated with implementing the Project. According to the initial draft procurement plan which was
finalized during the Appraisal, the majority (about 70%) o f the funding under this Grant will go towards
consultant contracts, ando f which about 80-90% is expected to be contracted using the "Individual
Consultant" selection method.

          For contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, the shortlist may
          contain entirely national consultants;

          Quality-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts valued at more than
          US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
          method inaccordance with the provisions o f Section 11, paragraph 3 o f Appendix 1and Appendix
          2 thereto, as per the Consultants' Guidelines;

          Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications (applicable to selection o f Firms): This method may
          be used for assignments, valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, for which the
          need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is notjustified. Insuch cases, the NBIand
          Sub-Executing Agencies will follow the procedures as per paragraph 3.7 o f the Consultants'
          Guidelines - "the Client will prepare the TORS,request expressions o f interest andinformation on
          the consultants' experience andcompetence relevant to the assignment andestablish a short list,
          and select the firm with the most appropriate qualifications and references. The selected firmshall
          then be asked to submit a combined technical and financial proposal for consideration andcontract
          negotiation";

          Services o f IndividualConsultants meeting the requirements o f Section V o fthe Consultant
          Guidelines will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of IndividualConsultants method.
          Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through comparison o f curriculum vitae against job
          description requirements o f those expressing interest inthe assignment, or those havingbeen
          identified directly by NBIand other Sub-Executing agencies. Civil servants cannot be hired as
          consultants under the project;

          Single Source Selection o f consultants may be done on an exceptional basis, provided it meets the
          criteria as stated inparagraph 3.8 to 3.11 o f the Consultants' Guidelines. The Bank's prior
          approval will be sought by NBIand Sub-Executing Agencies for all contracts under single source
          selection. The following major contracts under Single Source Selection method are envisaged
          under this Project. Detailedjustification will be submitted to the Bank for review and "no
          objection" prior to awarding the contracts: (i) Coordinator-CAPE Coordination Unit; (ii)     Eastern
          Cape Bioregional Program Coordinator; (iii)    to strengthen two centers o f excellence for the control
          o f alien invasive species- there willbe one based inCape Town (the Institute for Plant
          Conservation at the University o f Cape Town) and one based inGrahamstown (the South African
          Institute for Aquatic Biology together with the PlantProtection Research Institute); (iv) to enhance
          the ecological reserve measure inwater management, the University o f Cape Town's Freshwater
          Research Unitwill pilot anddevelop the techniques; (v) to continue to provide continuity for the


                                                     - 57 -

         Baviaanskloof Project Unit,the existing three staffcontracts will be extended; and (vi) to ensure
         continuity of the Cederberg Biodiversity Corridor Initiative, the contract o fthe existing
         Coordinator will be extended

    0    Terms of Reference: All TORs will be reviewed andapprovedby the NBIProject Coordinating
         Unit.The Bankwill review for "no objection'' only TORs where the estimatedcontract amount
         exceeds the prior review threshold (Le. $100,000 or above for f m s and $50,000 or above for
         individuals).

Works

The (South African) Preferential Procurement Policy Act of 2000 (PPPFA) mandatesall the Organs of
State to apply specific criteria intheir procurement processesto allow for preferential treatment o f
historically disadvantagedenterpriseshdividuals. The Country ProcurementAssessment Report (CPAR)
conductedjointly by the Government andthe Bankidentifieda number o f issues inrespecto fthe
implementation o f the PPPFA and its supporting Regulations. Arising from the CPAR recommendations,
the Government, in its policy paper of July 2003 (now approvedby the Cabinet), highlightedall the
relevant issues inthe application of the PPPFA and resolved to review the existing PPPFA and its
associatedRegulations as an integral part o f the processto promulgate the broad basedBlack Economic
Empowerment Bill o f2003. The PPPFA, however, continues to be inoperation untilthe Act and its
associatedRegulations are formally amended. As NBIis mandated,by an Act o f Law, to apply the
preferential rules intheir Nationalprocurement, the procurement of works, under this Project, which are
going to follow the national competitive procurement procedures, may follow the PPPFA and its associated
Regulations.

Works contracts will include development of supportive tourism infrastructure inselectedfew sites, fencing
activities, path and road construction, alien vegetation control and construction o f slipways. A large focus
of the allocation ofthese activities will be towards previously disadvantagedgroups. The following
procurement methodswill be used:

    0    Contracts for works estimated to cost US$50,000 US$500,000 equivalent per contract will be
                                                            -
         procured usingthe National Competitive Procedureswhich are acceptableto the Bank andwhich
         are inaccordancewith paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Procurement Guidelines; and

    0    Minor Works, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
         amount not to exceedUS$525,000 may be procured under; (i)         lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
         awardedon the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors inresponse
         to a written invitation. The invitationwill include a detaileddescription of the works, including
         basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to the
         Bank, andrelevant drawings, where applicable. The awardwill bemadeto the contractor who
         offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience andresources
         to complete the contract successfully. All procurement documents relatingto SmallWorks will be
         properly filed and retainedby NBIand Sub-Executing Agencies, the maincoordinating agencies
         for post review and audit by the Bank or (ii) through community contracting where a competitive
         market does not exist and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                     - 58 -

Trainingand Workshom

All trainingandworkshops under the Project will be conductedonthe basis o fprograms, which should be
approved by the Bank on a quarterly basis, and which shall, inter alia, identify: (a) the training and
workshops envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the institutions which will conduct the training;
(d) the duration ofthe proposedtraining and (e) an estimate o fthe cost.

NBI'sand Sub-Executing Avencv's Selection Processof Consultants:

NBI:Procurementproposalsfor activities underthe Projectwill bevettedbythe C.A.P.E. Executive
Committee (C.A.P.E. EXCO) that consists o f the following NBIstaff and C.A.P.E. office-bearers: Chief
Executive Officer; Chief Finance Officer, Chair: C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee, Coordinator
C.A.P.E., C.A.P.E. Finance Manager. The Steering Committee will meet on a quarterly basis and more
frequently as the need requires during the early phase o f the project. Prior to effectiveness, NBIProject
team will prepare a short procedures manual briefly explaining their (i)  internal procedures for various
procurement activities (mainly for the process, approval, signing andmonitoring o f contracts) and (ii)
working arrangements with the Sub-Executing Agencies for all procurement activities delegated to them.

Procurement CaDacitv Assessment:

Findings: Although the current procurement function at the NBIis essentially part o f the Finance
Department, it functions well in its current arrangement. However, it ideally needs to gain greater
independence especially inlight o fthe World Bank Project andthe anticipated procurement to be spent on
goods, works and consultant services. The existing controls for the financial aspect o f the procurement
function are well managedwith a high level o f discipline evident, with no noticeable deviation from the
Public Finance Management Act. The NBIhas considerable experience and capacity ingeneral handlingo f
the procurement cycle but currently does not have any specialist procurement staff. The NBIhas some
knowledge o f the Bank's procurement procedures andguidelines. The overall supervision o f procurement
under this project will be undertaken by the Procuremenflinancial Management Specialist for the C.A.P.E.
Coordination Unit.The overall procurement riskunder this project is rated as 'Average'.

Recommendations: Given the less complex nature o fprocurements under this Project, overall monitoring
and coordination by NBI's Central Coordination Unitand the acceptable procurement capabilities o f all the
three Sub-Executing Agencies, the Sub-Executing Agencies will be able to undertake procurement for the
activities delegated to them. It is however envisaged that a procurement workshop for a maximumo f two
days will take place duringthe first three months o fProject implementation. A full-time
FinanciaUProcurement Specialist will be appointed to the C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit,with all other
management accounting and auditing functions carried out under the responsibility o f the N B I ' s Chief
Financial Officer. Independent procurement reviews and evaluations on performance should be conducted
by the Project once every six months for the first year, and thereafter once every twelve months. The
procurement reviewslaudits should be done as part o f the financial audits conducted by the Auditor
General's office or by the Auditor General's appointed auditors. The Bank may conduct periodic reviews, if
required, to ensure progress inbuildingcapacity and satisfactory performance.

Action to be completed bv NBIDrior to Grant Effectiveness:

    0    Appointment o f a full time FinanceProcurement Specialist. (done April 1,2004)




                                                    - 59 -

Procurement methods (Table A)


                         Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                           (US$ million equivalent)




"Figuresinparenthesesare the amountsto befinancedby the Bank Grant. All costsinclude contingencies.

 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
 contracted staff of the project managementoffice, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
 costs related to (i)managingthe project.
Not banked financed (NBF) includes:NBIUS$680 000, WCNCB US$4,4 million, SANParks US$3,02 million,
DEAT US$7,45 million,
DWAF US$6,1 million, Western Cape Dept of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning US$6,1 million
and anticipated private sector US$16,72 million.




                                                     - 60 -

                      Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




I
I\Includingcontingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                  -61 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




 I. Works                               50-500           I           NCB                      All Prior Review
                                         <50                      SmallWorks                   All PostReview
 !.Goods                                 >250                         ICB                     All Prior Review

                                        30-250           I           NCB                       All PostReview

                                         <3 0                      Shopping                    All PostReview
 1. Services                             >loo                        QCBS                        All contracts
                                        50-100                                             >$50,000 for individual
                                                                                        consultants and >$100,00
                                                                                           for firms Prior Review

                                         <50                    QCBS/CQ/Other                    Post review
 !.Training and                                                                         All training andworkshops
 Norkshops                                                                                under the Projectwill be
                                                                                          conductedonthe basis of
                                                                                        programs, which should be
                                                                                        approvedby the Bank on a
                                                                                         quarterlybasis, andwhich
                                                                                        shall, inter alia, identify: (a;
                                                                                        the trainingandworkshops
                                                                                              envisaged; (b) the
                                                                                        personnelto be trained; (c)
                                                                                          the institutionswhich will
                                                                                        conduct the training; (d) the
                                                                                           durationof the proposed
                                                                                             training; and (e) an
                                                                                             estimate of the cost.
 5. Miscellaneous            I
                             I                            I
                                                          I
    Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $5.65 million in5 years
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
      Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed: One every 6 months
                                                                         (includes specialprocurement supervisionfor
                                                                         post-reviewlaudits)

' Thresholdsgenerally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency'sCapacityto Implement
 Procurement"and contactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    - 62 -

              Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
     SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservationand Sustainable Development
                                                     Project

Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment

Countrv Risk

N o Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) has been carried out on South Africa to date.
However, it is generally accepted that the country has one o f the more developed accounting professions in
the world, andcertainly amongst the more technically capable inthe region. Experience o f Bank financed
projects is however not that widely available, although to the Project's advantage, SANParks andNBIare
both implementing Bank supported GEF Projects.

The country has a good reservoir o f qualified accounting professionals andas a middle income country has
an adequately staffed Audit Office. Inaddition, where time is o f the essence, the Auditor General is
allowed, by legislation, to out-source some of the work. The Auditor General's Office has already
produced several annual audit reports, satisfactory to the Bank.

Proiect Risks

The NBI is currently managing over a hundred different projects. This is an advantage inthat the Project
i s joining the stable o f a very experienced project management organization. The potential disadvantage of
competing projects has been mitigated by the establishment o f the CCU, which is dedicated within NBI, to
the management o f the Project.

As per the various Financial Management Questionnaires compiledby andwith each o fthe
executinglsub-Executing Agencies, there are no significant risks associated with the Project.

FinancialManagement stren&hs and weaknesses

Strengths

Project financial management will be overseen by the existing NBIFinance Department. The C C U will be
responsible for receiving andreviewing the completeness and appropriateness o f invoices and other
requests for payment. The actual capturing o f those invoices and their actual settlement will be made by
and through the existing NBIpayments system. The NBIFinance Department is staffed by seasoned,
qualified and experienced professionals who will not only buttress the CCU finance section, but enhance
the segregation o f duties andhence intemal control. Inaddition, the CCU does not have to find andtest a
new accounting system. They will simply log into existing, tried, and tested financial software. The
proposed incoming Project Financelprocurement Officer will only needtraining in its proper use.

While the NBIhas its own existing Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual a small update has
to be made to this to incorporate the new positions at the CCU, and how they relate to existingNBI
structures, and the Sub-Executing Agencies that they will be working with. The production o f this
enhanced Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual will be circulated to the Bank for comment.

The Project FinancialProcurement Specialist will be recruited inaccordance with Terms o f Reference
(TORS)acceptable to the Bank.

Finally, project components implemented outside o fthe NBVCCU will be implemented by well established
organizations already carrying out activities inthe same geographical and technical areas. The
Sub-Executing Agencies possess significant competencies inboth technical execution andfinancial
management.

Weaknesses

A suitably qualified Project FinanceProcurement Specialist was employed onApril 1,2004. The
incumbent may require some familiarization with Bank requirements as people with experience inrunning
Bank financed projects are not inabundance in South Africa.

The use o f Sub-Executing Agencies could also be a weakness, as it means that the NBIis not totally in
control o f the spending and reporting patterns for all funds. It has to rely on the quality o f output o f the
Sub-Executing Agencies for those activities carried out by them.

These issues have been overcome by the appointment o f a Procuremenflinancial Management Specialist.

Financial Management Svstem and Reporting

Organizational Structure

A CCUhas beenestablished specifically for the management ofthe Project, andwill be inday to day
management o f the Project's operations. Inaddition to a Coordinator, the CCUwill be supported by the
FinanceIProcurement Specialist.

The Project's FinanceIProcurement Specialist will be responsible for keeping copies o f all accounting
records (originals filed with the payment documentation at the NBIFinance Department), justification o f
claims from the Sub-Executing Agencies, disbursements and replenishment o f the Special Account,
financial reporting on CCU activities as well as consolidating the activities o fthe Sub-Executing Agencies
into FMR'sreports, and general administration o f the unit.The Project Finance/Procurement Specialist is
responsible to both the C.A.P.E Coordinator and the Director o f Finance o f NBIwho remains the
"Accounting Officer" for the Project.

Admin and AccountingProceduresManual

Project financial management will be based on the existing NBIfinancial management system. The NBI
already has a comprehensive Admin and Accounting Procedures Manual which gives guidance on:
0   The financial policies andprocedures to be applied;
0   The chart o f accounts;
0   The accounting and internal control system to be followed;
0   The nature andtiming of financial reporting; and
0    Auditingarrangements.




                                                      - 64 -

The manual will needto be revisedto incorporatethe new CCU's activities, elaborateon the flow of funds
channeledfor the IBRD/GEF funding, and give details of:
0   Additional account codes for use by the Project -the coding systemmust give sufficient flexibility to
    provide financial informationby project activity;
0   Project component ;
0   Disbursement/expenditure category;
0   FixedAssets-creation o f a register specifically for project assets ifany, and the nature of the details
    therein, and
0   Budgeting-salient features o f the Project's budgetpreparation process, as well as the monitoring of
    actual performance againstbudget.

Accounting System

The accounting systemfor the proposedProject will bebasedonthe existing computerized, double entry
systems currently inuse at the NBI, SANParks, WCNCB, and WF. The objectives ofthe systems include
the achievement of:
0   Proper recording of assets, liabilities, revenues(where applicable) and expendituresof the Project;
0   Providing accurate and timely managementinformation;
0   Providing timely and accurate information for use by other stakeholders inthe formats that they
    require; and
0   Supporting the preparation of statutory and other audits.

The accounting systems must support the generalprinciples of equity, economy, efficiency, and
effectiveness. With regardsto the Bank's requirements, it is the NBIthat will coordinate and collate the
quarterly progressreports produced by each o f the Sub-Executing Agencies. The reports must be able to
support the productiono f quarterly NBIFMRswhich integrate Project accounting, procurement, contract
management, disbursementandphysical progress of activities on the ground.

Reporting (Financial Monitoring Reports)

Formats o f the various periodic financial monitoring reports, to be generatedfrom the financial
management system, have beendeveloped. There are clear linkages betweenthe informationinthese
reports and the Chart o f Accounts. The financial reports have been designedto provide quality and timely
information to project managementand various stakeholders on project performance.

The following minimum quarterly FMRs will be produced :
0   Financial Reports;
0   Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Activity and Component;
0   Special Account Reconciliation;
0   Disbursement Reports;
0   Physical ProgressReport; and
0   Procurement Monitoring Report




                                                     - 65 -

Project Financial Statements

ccu

The Grant Agreement will require the submission o f audited financial statements to the Bank within six
months after the financial year-end. The Financial Statements will consist of:
e   A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds which recognizes all cash receipts, cashpayments andcash
    balances controlled by the Project;
e   The SpecialAccount Reconciliation; and
e   The Accounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes. The explanatory notes should be presented
     ina systematic manner with items onthe Statement of Sourcesand Uses beingcross referencedto any
     related information inthe notes. Examples o f this informationinclude:
         --- a Management
             a summary o f fixed assets by category o f assets;
             copy o f FMRs; and
                            Assertion that Bank funds have been expended inaccordance with the intended
purposes as specified inthe relevant World Bank legal agreement.

Sub-ExecutingAgencies

The Subsidiary Agreements with the Sub-Executing Agencies will require audited accounts to be submitted
to the NBIand the Bank.

StaffinpandTraining

Staff Qualifications & Skills

The CCU's FinanceProcurement Specialist has been hired on TORSagreed with the Bank. The NE31
already has a professionally qualified Director o f Finance with additional qualified accountants insupport.
Likewise, the "heads" o f finance at each o f SANParks, WCNCB and Wilderness Foundation are
professional accountants who will however each require some guidance on accounting for Bank financed
projects.

Training Plan

A trainingplan for ,allstaffwill be prepared basedontheir various backgrounds. The training will include
exposure to Bank procedures.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

Internal Audit is outsourced to Pricewaterhouse Coopers at NBIand WCNCB. SANParks has an in-house
internal audit department supported by external consultants. The wilderness Foundation's operations have
been fairly small to date and they have not felt the need for an Internal Auditor. This position will however
be reviewed duringthe life o f the Project, and should the need arise, the function can also be outsourced.

External Audit

For the NBI, WCNCB and SANParks, the external audit will be carried out annually by the Controller and


                                                        - 66 -

Auditor General (CAG) or such other person as may be approved by the CAG. The extemal audit will
cover all World Bank funds and counterpart funds at all levels o f Project execution. The auditor will be
required to express an opinion on the audited project financial statements only, incompliance with
International Standards on Auditing(IFAChNTOSAI pronouncements) and submitthe audit report within
six months o f the end o f the financial year. Inaddition, detailed management letters containing the auditor's
assessment o fthe internal controls, accounting system andcompliance with financial covenants inthe
GrantAgreement, and suggestions for improvement will be preparedand submitted to management for
follow-up.

The Wildemess Foundation's audit is currently carried is by Emst and Young. This is a reputable
intemational firm o f chartered accountants and presumedto have the necessary qualifications. The audit
terms o f reference will however need to be reviewed by the Bankto ensure compliance with its
requirements.

Itis recommendedthat formal arrangements for the extemal audit ofthe financial statements covering all
Project activities should be communicated to the Bank through the agreed terms o f reference. These TORS
must be agreed by Effectiveness.

Supervision

Financial management supervision will be carried out regularly by the Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) at least once a year. The initial supervision will be on implementation progress o f agreed actions as
per paragraph 5.1 below.

The FMS will:
0    Conduct a financial management supervision shortly post effectiveness; and
0    Review the annualAudit Reports and Management Letters from the extemal auditors andfollow-up on
     material accountability issues by engaging with the Task Team Leader, Client, andor Auditors.

3. DisbursementArrangements
The flow o f funds arrangements for the Project will entail the operation o f the following bank accounts:

Bank/GEF funds: A Randdenominated Special Account will be operated by the counterpart and held at a
local commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Bank will disburse an initial advance from the proceeds
o f the Grant into the NBISpecial Account. Replenishment will be through submission o f FMRs.

Counterpart funds will be allocated through the entities' normal budget processes. The Special Account
should be inplace by the time o f Effectiveness. Details o fthe necessary authorizations and the bank
account signatories should be documented as part o f an Administrative and Accounting Procedures Manual
to be preparedby the CCU.

Disbursements from the Grant will be made on the basis o f FMRs. The Bank will advance an initial
amount from the proceeds o f the Grant into the Special Account based on the forecasted expenditure needs
as reported inthe first FMR. The advance to the Special Account will be usedby the recipient to finance
the Bank's share o f Project expenditures under the Grant.

Where necessary, the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the Grant Account to third
parties for works, goods and services, may be utilizeduponthe recipient's request. Payments may also be
made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IBRDspecial commitments covering a commercial


                                                       - 67 -

bank's Letter o f Credit. The Bank's Disbursement Letter will stipulate the minimumapplication value for
direct payment and special commitment procedures.

A retroactive financing clause will be provided to support the CCUto continue to operate untilsuch time as
the proceeds o f the grant becomes available. This may not exceed $150,000 worth o f expenditures and will
cover categories 3 and 5 o f expenditures, below, incurred after September 30,2003 andbefore the date o f
the grant.

Sub-ExecutingAgencies

The Sub-Executing Agencies will receive an advance o f approximately 90 days o f estimated Project
expenditures attributable to them to facilitate Project execution. The advances will be on the basis of a
quarterly execution plans, acceptable to the NBI. They will provide documentation andaccountability on
the funds received on a monthly basis. NBIrepresentatives andBank staff will be allowed to review the
documentation and books o f accounts o fthe Sub-Executing Agencies. The Project auditors will be given
full accessandassistanceto audit the Project accounts andassets inall agencies concemed with the
Project. Altematively, since the Sub-Executing Agencies have acceptable external auditors, they will audit
the Project accounts o f the relevant agency and the Project auditors will inturnuse the audit reports o f the
said auditors to complete the Project audit.

 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

           Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$million             Financing Percentage
 1. Works                                                0.89                100% o f foreign expenditures and
                                                                                80% o f local exPenditures
 2. Goods                                                 0.25                 100% o f foreign expenditures;
                                                                           100% o f local expenditures (ex-factory
                                                                                          cost) and
                                                                         80% o f local expenditures for other items
                                                                                      produced locally
 3. Consultant services                                   5.98

 (A) Parts D1 and D2 ofthe Project under                                                   100%
 WF (US$0.6)
 (B) for all other Parts o fthe Project                                    100%foreign expenditures and 83% o f
 (US$5.38)                                                                           local expenditures
 4. Traininglworkshops                                    0.52                              100%
 5. Operating costs                                       1.36                              83%

 Total Project Costs with Bank                            9.00
 Financing
               Interest during construction               0.00
 Total                                                    9.00




                                                     - 6%-

 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made on the basis o f
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $250,000
equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services o f
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services o f consulting fums
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, (e) all training and workshops; and (4
all operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.


Conclusion

The overall conclusions o f the current financial management assessment are that:
0   The proposedfinancial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirements for
    financial management at the Project; and
0   Overall Project financial management risk is assessedas low.




                                                     - 69 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservation and Sustainable Development Project



 Time taken to prepare the project (months)              28
  First Bank mission (identification)                    01/15/2002                      05/28/2002
 Appraisal mission departure                             11/03/2003                      12/07/2003
  Negotiations                                           0211~12004                      0211912004

 IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                I         05/30/2004              I                     . I

 Prepared by:
 Christopher Wamer, Task Team Leader, World Bank
 Trevor Sandwith, C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit

 Preparation assistance:
 Amanda Younge: Design issues
 Merle Sewman: Environmental Assessment
 Lala Steyn: Resettlement

 Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
          Name                                           Speciality
  Christopher Warner                     Task Team Leader, overall design and social components
  Christophe CrCpin                      Overall support to Project design and GEF policy
  Agi Kiss                               Biodiversity and Project design quality
  JonathanNyamakupa                      Financial management
  Aberra Zerabruk                        Legal
  Iraj Talai                             Finance
  DanAronson                             Safeguards
  Vs Krishnakumar                        Procurement
  JohnBoyle                              Safeguards
  Kristine Ivarsdotter                   Safeguards
  Suzanne Morris                         Disbursement
  Jean-Christophe Carret                 Market basedapproaches
  Matthew Stern                          Economic linkages
  Caroline Guazzo                        Editing
  Erika Odendaal                         Editing
  HishamAbdu Kahin                       Legal
  Claudia Sobrevila                      Review




                                                 - 70 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservation and Sustainable Development Project


 A. Project ImplementationPlan



 B. Bank Staff Assessments
 Financialmanagement, disbursement, PAD review, December 14,2003 (Nyamukapa)
 Procurement, PAD review, November 1,2003 (Nyamukapa)
 Safeguards, draf?ESDS and RPF review ,November20,2003 (Walton)
 PAD review, November 18,2003 (Crkpin)
 PAD review, November5 and 7,2003 (Kiss)
 PAD comments, November20,2003 (Scobey)
 PAD comments, November 19,2003 (Van den Brink)
 PCD review, February,2003 (Pagiola),
 PCD review, February,2003 (Sobrevilla)
 ISDS review, August 2,2003 (Boyle)
 ISDS review, August 2,2003 (Ivarsdotter)

 C. Other
 Spatialcomponent report: Protectedareas, January 17, 2003
 Spatialcomponent report: Freshwater andwatersheds, March 28, 2003
 Spatialcomponent: Marine and coastal, March 17, 2003
 Spatialcomponent: Lowlands, April, 2003
 Cross cutting component: Information management,August, 29 2003
 Spatialcomponent: Landuse decisionmaking, February 10, 2003
 Crosscuttingcomponent: Monitoring and evaluation,January 17, 2003
 Cross cutting component: Programmanagement,January 17,2003
 Cross cutting component: Conservationlivelihoods, August 29,2003
 Cross cutting component: Institutional strengthening, May 30,2003
 Cross cutting component: Participatoryapproach, April, 2003
 Cross cutting component: Environmentaleducation, March, 2003
 Draft RPF, October29, 2003
 Draft ESMF, October29,2003
 Procurement self assessment reviews, September2,2003
 FMR Format
 Draft Procurement Plan
 Draft M&E format
 PCD review, STAP, February, 16,2003 (Miller)
 PCD review, UNDP, February2003 (Alers)
 PCD review, May 2003, Swiss Council comments
 PCD review, May 30,2003, GermanCouncil comments
 GEF FocalPoint endorsementletter, September 9,2003
 Project Brief,May 16,2003
 PDF B Application
 Minutesof PCDreviewmeeting, March 6, 2003


                                                   - 71 -

Inaugural CIC meeting, November 30,2001
GEFSEC ConceptReview, March26,2003
PDFB submission, March28,2003
Aide memoires, October 2-5,2002; November 6,2002; December9,2002; May 28-31,2003; June, 22-24,
2003; August 13,2003; MinutesofNegotiationsFebruary 19,2004

*Including electronicfiles




                                             - 72 -

                                        Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
     SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project
                                                         20-Apr-2004
                                                                                                                  Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                           and actuai
                                                              Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO76901     2003 MunicipalFinancialManagementTA             15.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   14.85         6.43      0.00
PO52368     2002 ZA. MALOTI-DRAKENSBERGCONSERV.& DE          0.00       0.00                  7.93    0.00     7.90        2.68      0.00
PO35923     1998 CAPE PENINSULA                              0.00       0.00                 12.30    0.00     0.57      12.28       0.00
PO48606     1997 IND.COMPETBJOBCREAT                        46.00       0.00                  0.00   21.53     8.36      29.89       0.36

                                                  Total:   61.OO        0.00               20.23     21.53   31.69        51.28      0.36




                                                            - 73 -

                                       SOUTHAFRICA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                         Mar 2004
                                               -
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                        Disbursed
                                                      IFC                             IFC
FY Approval     Company                        Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999            AEF Bulwer                     0.00     0.00      0.19    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.19   0.00
1996            AEF CarosaFarm                 0.00     0.09      0.13    0.00   0.00   0.09    0.13   0.00
2000            AEF DBS                        0.00     0.00      0.75    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.75   0.00
1999            AEF DargleTimbr                0.39     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.39   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997198         AEF E.R. Medical               0.00     0.18      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.18    0.00   0.00
1999            AEF FoxtrotMeat                 0.38    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.38   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999            AEF IHSTechno                   0.18    0.00      0.65    0.00   0.18   0.00    0.65   0.00
2000            AEF Tusk                        1.68    0.10      0.00    0.00   1.68   0.10    0.00   0.00
1995196199      AFLIFE                          0.00    5.94      0.00    0.00   0.00   5.94    0.00   0.00
2002104         African Bank                    5.20    0.00      0.00    0.00   4.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            Bioventures                     0.00    2.53      0.00    0.00   0.00    1.37   0.00   0.00
2000            EDULOAN                         2.72    0.00      0.00    0.00   2.72   0.00    0.00   0.00
2004            Mvela Gold                      0.00    0.00     30.27    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00  0.00
2002            NAMF                            0.00    5.00      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.40     0.00  0.00
2001            Printability                    5.88     1.50     2.36    0.00   5.88    1.50    2.36  0.00
1995            SAFCF                           0.00     1.18     0.00     0.00  0.00    1.18    0.00  0.00
2000102103104   SAHL                            0.00     0.66     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.66    0.00  0.00
1999            SAPEF                           0.00    27.22     0.00     0.00  0.00   22.42    0.00  0.00
2001            Spier                          16.22     1.87     0.00     0.00  16.22   1.87    0.00  0.00
                      Total Portfolio:        32.65    46.27      34.35    0.00  31.77  35.71    4.08   0.00



                                                    Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval     Company                           Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000            EDU LOAN                           0.00       1.62     0.00     0.00
2004           Hemic                              20.00       0.00      7.00    0.00
2001            Spier Estate                       0.00       7.50      0.00    0.00

                Total PendingCommitment:          20.00       9.12      7.00     0.00




                                              - 74 -

                                                  Annex I O : Country at a Glance
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project
                                                                     Sub-   Lower-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                         South   Saharan  middle-
                                                           Africa   Africa  income        Developmentdlamond.
 2002
 Population,mid-year(miilions)                               43.6     688     2,411                       Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         2,520     450     1,390
 GNi (Atlas method, US$billions)                            113.5     306     3,352
 Average annual growth, 1996-02
 Population (%)                                               1.5      2.4      I.o
  Laborforce (%)                                              1.8      2.5      1.2

  Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)
  Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)
  Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                       58       33          49
  Life expectancyat birth (years)                              46       46          69
  infant mortality (per 1,000 live birlhs)                     65     105           30
 Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under 5)                                           11              Access to improvedwater source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)            86       58          81
  Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                            14       37          13       -
  Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)          111       86      111                    South Africa
      Male                                                    115       92      111                    Lower-middie-incomegroup
                                                                                               ~

      Female                                                  108       80      110

  KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                     1982    1992     2001     2002        Economic ratlos'
  GDP (US$ billions)                                 80.1   130.5    114.2    104.2
  Gross domestic investmenffGDP                      24.9     14.8    15.1     15.8
  Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                   26.6    21.3     30.6     34.0                             Trade

  Gross domesticsavingsiGDP                          24.6     18.8    18.7     19.2
  Gross nationalsavings/GDP                          20.9     16.2    14.8     16.1

  Current account baiance/GDP                         -4.0     1.5     -0.3         0.3   Domestic
  Interestpayments/GDP                                 0.0     0.0      0.3         0.3   savings                            investment
  Total debffGDP                                       1.1     0.5    21.1     24.0
  Total debt service/exports                           0.2     0.2    11.6      12.2
  Presentvalue of debUGDP                                             20.5
  Presentvalue of debffexports                                        62.3                                   indebtedness
                                           1982-92 1992-02   2001     2002  2002-06
  (averageannualgrowth)                                                                         -South         Africa
  GDP                                          1.1     2.7     2.8      3.0         3.0                  Lower-middle-incomegroup
   ~~

  GDP per capita                              -1.1     1.2     1.3      1.5         1.5   1                                            1
                                                                                                   ~




  STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                     1982    1992     2001     2002
  (% of GDP)
  Agriculture                                          5.7     3.8      3.5
  Industry                                            44.2    36.4    31.5      3:::
      Manufacturing                                   23.7    21.9     18.6     18.8
  Services                                            50.1    59.8    65.0      64.2

  Privateconsumption                                  58.9    61.0    62.5      61.5
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                        16.4    20.2     18.9     19.2
  imports of goods and services                       26.9    17.3     27.1     30.5

                                                   1982-92 1992-02    2o01     2o02
  (average annualgrowth)                                                                   Growth of exports and imports ("A)

  Agriculture                                          3.2     2.6     -1.7         4.0   1 5 T                                        I
  industry                                             0.3     1.7      2.6         2.7   lo
      Manufacturing                                    0.7     2.2      3.6         4.0    5
  Services                                             1.9     3.2      3.4         3.1    o

  Privateconsumption                                   1.4     2.9      2.6         3.1    -'
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                         3.1     0.7      3.3                                        "
  Gross domestic investment                           -3.0     3.8      0.2         9.0                -Exports        -0-lmports
  imports of goods and services                        1.7     5.3      0.3         3.1




                                                                   - 75 -

                                                                                                         SouthAfrica
          ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1982    1992     2001    2002
Domesticprices                                                              1 Inflation (Oh)                              z
(% change)
Consumer prices                            14.7   13.9       4.8     8.9
Implicit GDP deflator                      13.9   14.6       7.8     8.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                           22.3    23.7     24.4    24.6
Current budget balance                      1.3    -4.5      0.4     1.o
Overall surplus/deficit                    -3.7    -7.4     -1.5    -1.2
                                                                            7                                             1
TRADE
                                          1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Exportand Importlevels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      20,135 24,487   30,731  32,042
 Gold                                     7,945  7,871    3,415   4,165
 Food, beverages, and tobacco             1.a79  1,582    2,629   2,741      30,000
 Manufactures                            3,048   5,653    4,556   4,750
Total imports (cif)                      20,218 188,224  25,869  27,556      2o.ow
 Food                                     1,059    948     1,893  2,017
 Fuel and energy                          7,035  6,390    3,436   3,661      10,ow

 Capitalgoods                                            14.130  15.052           0

Export price index (1995=100j                       75        16     15               96    97  98    99   00     01   02

Import priceindex (1995=100)                        75       31      32                     SExports     #Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS

(US$ millions)                                             2o01    2o02
Exportsof goods and services             20,118 27,839   35,254  36,670
imports of goods and services            20,372 22.581   31.061  33.039
Resource balance                           -254   5,258    4,193  3,631
Net income                               -3,181  -2,945   -3,749  -2,748      0

Net current transfers                       257   -366     -739    -572
Current account balance                  -3,178   1,947    -295     310       -'
Financing items (net)                     2,931  -2,146    -668   -3,715
Changes in net reserves                     247     199      963   3,404      .2

Memo:                                                                        L                                             I
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)     3,981   4,089    7,494   7,620
Conversionrate (DEC.local/US$l              1.0     2.9      8.6    10.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composltlon of 2002debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed         857     612   24,050 25,041
  IBRD                                       73     129        0      13
  IDA                                       177      13        0       0                        A: 13 D 117


Total debt service                           44      62    4,355   4,692             G 7,
  IBRD                                        4      32        0       I
  IDA                                         2       0        0       0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                             0       0        0       0
  Official creditors                         59      26        0       4
  Private creditors                         -16      -3   -1,634     432                                          '17.511
  Foreigndirect investment
  Portfolioequity

World Bank program
  Commitments                                                  0                                             E Bilateral
                                                                                                                 ~
  Disbursements                              48       5        0
  Principalrepayments                         2      21        0
  Net flows                                  46     -16        0       5
  Interestpayments                            4      11        0       1
  Net transfers                              42     -27        0       4

Uevelopment tconomics                                                                                               Y/1 /IO3




                                                        - 76 -

                      Additional Annex I 1: Backgroundto the Project Area
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project

 Biodiversitv: The conservation o f the CFR is a global biodiversity priority. South Africa is a
 megadiversity country, mainly due to its floristic diversity andhighlevel o f endemism. South Africa's plant
 diversity is estimatedat 23,420 species, representing9% o f the world total. The Cape Floristic Region
 (CFR) inSouthAfrica is the smallest and richest ofthe world's six floral kingdoms, and is uniquely located
 entirely within the geographical confines o f a single country. It is also one o f the world's 25 most
 threatened biodiversity hotspots (Myers et al., 2000). The CFR is exceptionally rich inspecies diversity,
 with some 9,600 species o f vascular plants on record. The flora is characterized by highendemism and
 highlylocalized distributions, with similar levels of diversity inother taxonomic groups. Many invertebrate
 species, for example, are highly specialized, having developedhighlymutualistic relationships with plants,
 and like the flora, they tend to have very narrow range distributions.

 Underlying this exceptional species diversity is highterrestrial, freshwater and marine habitat diversity.
 The natural environment includes semi-arid ecosystems, remnant temperate moist forests along the eastem
 coast, and extensive mountain ecosystems. The habitat diversity is a product o f the topographical
 variation, and substrate and climatic variation, and this inturninfluences alpha diversity. Importantly,
 these landscapes are characterized by highbiogeographical tumover, manifest inexceptional gamma
 diversity. The coastal area is influencedby two oceanic currents: the warm Agulhas Current on the East
 Coast and the cold Benguela Current on the West Coast. 11,000 species o f marine animals have been
 recorded inSouth African waters, o f which 3,500 are endemic to the CFR occurring only between Cape
 Point and Port Elizabeth. The marine fish fauna is very rich with some 400 species recorded (including
 several notable endemics). The nutrient-rich Benguela Current, inparticular, is notedfor its productive
 fisheries, although the Agulhas has greater absolute diversity.

 Threats: The rich biodiversity o f the CFR is under serious threat, as a result o f the conversion o f natural
 habitat to permanent agriculture and to rangelands for cattle, sheep andostriches, inappropriate fire
 management, rapid and insensitive urbaninfrastructural development, over-exploitation o f marine
 resources and wild flowers, and infestation by alien species. Some important habitats have been reduced
 by over 90% and less than 5% o f landinthe lowlands enjoys any conservation status. The regionhas
 therefore been identifiedas one o fthe world's "hottest" biodiversity hotspots.

 There is an urgent need to arrest these pressures, through the creation o f an enabling institutional
 coordination framework at the regional and local levels, the creation o f a biogeographically representative
 system o f protected areas, with different objectives andoperated under appropriate management
 arrangements, and through mainstreaming conservation into the productive sectors, particularly agriculture,
 forestry and fisheries. This will intum require the creation o f durable multi-stakeholder public-private
 partnerships.

 Protected areas: The CFR is characterizedby a relatively large number o f protected areas, managedby
 SANParks, the WCNCB, Eastem Cape Government, local Government and private sector. See figure 1
 below. The conservation estate is characterized by at least three key issues: (i) has not been designed to
                                                                                      it
 specifically buffer key threats and to conserve a representative portion o f the biodiversity o f the CFR. This
 leaves large portions o f habitat extremely vulnerable, especially inLowland areas andthe marine
 environment. However, the current protected area system serves other useful purposes and is relatively
 effective inconserving water storage areas and mountain ecosystems; (ii)     an increasing number o f private
 land-owners are forming conservancies, private nature reserves and supporting biosphere reserves, and



                                                       - 77 -

 natural heritage sites. An issue is that these activities are still not taking place inthe most vulnerable areas
 or rapidly enough to conserve threatened habitats and species; and (iii)     future models for expanding the
 conservation estate will need to be based on combiningthe strengths o f both the public and private sector
 through partnerships.

 Table 1.Extent of protected areas inthe CFR

 Statutory Conservation        Management Authority                         Number of          Total Area
 Area                                                                       conservation       (km2)
                                                                            areas
 Wilderness Area               Western Cape Nature Conservation            I       4             1,169.24
                               Board, Department o f Economic
                               Affairs, Environment and Tourism:                             I                I
                               Eastern Cape
 National Park                 South African National Parks                         7             902.83
 ProvincialNature Reserve Western Cape Nature Conservation                         79            5,776.88
                               Board Department o f Economic
                               Affairs, Environment andTourism:
                               Eastern Cape
 Marine Protected Area         Western Cape Nature Conservation                     7             419.29
                               BoardSouth African National Parks
 Island Reserves               Western Cape Nature Conservation                    12               2.95
                               Board
 Local Authority Nature        Various District Councils and                       38             255.82
 Reserve                       Municipalities
 Mountain Catchment            Western Cape Nature Conservation                    15            6,190.37
I Area                         Board and private land-owners               I

 Private Conservation
 Area
  Private Nature Reserve       Private land-owners                                 148            1,223.98
  Conservancies              IIPrivate land-owners                                 43        II   5.631.20
  Natural Heritage Sites       Private land-owners                                 36             331.98
  Biosphere Reserves           Private land-owners and Western                      2            4,608.18
                               Cape Nature Conservation Board

  Social and economic context: An assessmento f the socio-economic context o f the CFR needs to be
  considered interms o f two key issues: (i)  the extent andvalue to whichthe CFR contributes to economic
  growth and development; and (ii)   reliance o f marginalisedpoorer communities on use o f these resources.

  The financial contribution o f ecological services o f the CFR to the economy is considerable and inexcess
  o f at least US$1billionper annum. Sectors which benefit, include the water services sector, fishing,
  agriculture, flower-harvesting and tourism. Therefore, the conservation o f the CFR is not only critical to
  the economy o f the regionbut also has potential to further economic growth and development and to
  alleviate poverty,

  Poorer communities currently practice limited access to natural resources, including marine resources and
  medicinal plants when compared to many other parts o f Africa. This is due to the historical alienation o f
  poorer communities from access, the lack o f communal landownership and the lack o f indigenous


                                                        - 78 -

communities inthe area. However, the changing demographics inthe region, as well as increased poverty
and crime/poaching syndicates, have increased pressure on natural resources.

The CFR spans the provinces o f the Westem Cape and Eastem Cape and has an estimated population o f
approximately 5,2 million. Some 20-30% o f the populationresides inrural areas, which harbor the
greatest biodiversity, although many urbancommunities also reside on or adjacent to biologically
significant areas. The population is dispersed across a wide area and is characterized by diversity interms
o f ethnicity, language and culture. Socio-economic disparities are marked, as are disparities inskills and
access to resources. There are sizable pockets o f poverty existing throughout, inboth rural and urban
areas. Onthe whole, the population o f the Western Cape enjoys a greater degree o f human, economic and
social development than their Eastem Cape counterparts, where unemployment is estimated at 49%.

A range of landtenure arrangements is inevidence, including large, medium andsmall free-holdings,
state-owned land under different management arrangements, and a small proportion o f communal land.




                                                    - 79 -

                       AdditionalAnnex 12: Environmental Threats Analysis
SOUTH AFRICA: C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservationand Sustainable Development Project


 Major environmental        Root causes                Solutions including GEF intervention      Risks
 threats                                                numbers= LFA subcomponent
                                                        iddressingthe issue)
    I. transformationduetolandconversion(u andevelopmentandagriculture)
      Habitat
 (i) Highpriority          I 1.The total economic       I. This is acomplex problem for which    hdies are inconclusive
 conservationareas inCFR value of vulnerable            here is no short-term solution. The       )runconvincing to key
 encompassingtransition     ecological systems          'roject will lay the foundations for      #takeholders.
 zones betweenmontane       (underpinning               iddressingthis problem by undertaking
  and lowlands are severely livelihoods) is not         nvestigationsregarding economic
                            accommodatedin the          ncentives to facilitate stewardshipof
 fragmented, resulting in costbenefit calculus of
  loss of connectivity and Iland-use.                  cey lowland biodiversity.

 gradientsbetweenlarge
 habitat blocks.
                            2. Biodiversity             2. Feasibility studies will be undertaken 3iodiversity conservatior
                            conservation                narepresentativesample of priority        iecomesa "cash cow" to
                            experiencing decline in    srotectedareas to develop PA business      xoss-subsidiseother
                            supportto operating         slam and mechanisms for financial         iocio-economicpriorities
                            budgets.                    justainability to support ongoing         Nithout maintaining the
                                                       srotecteddevelopment and management nvestmentinthe source
                                                       :1.3,4.2); Economic evaluation of          J f income.
                                                       xological services will provide a sound
                                                       rationalefor further investment in         ExecutingAgencies
                                                        biodiversity conservation (6).            loosetheir financial
                                                                                                  mtonomy.


                             3. There is generally      3. The Project will raise awareness and   Unwillingness on the
                            poor public awarenessof understandingofbiodiversity issues and part of the large number
                            the importance of the       benefits inthe CFR. It will establish a   o f conservationeducation
                             CFR, its critically        conservationeducation focal point to      service providers to
                            threatenedstatus and the serve the C.A.P.E. Program and provide coordinate activities.
                             opportunities that will be technicalresourcesto support site-based
                             lost shouldbiodiversity    conservationeducationprocessesacross
                             losses continue            the entire Project. It will also buildon
                            unabated.One of the         the favorable national educationpolicy
                             reasons is that, despite a environment to ensure that CFR
                            high level of               biodiversity features in school cumcula
                             understandingof            throughout the CFR (2.1).
                             conservation education
                            processes, there is poor
                             coordination of effort.

                            4. Inadequateresolution 4. The Project will support enhancing         Political conflicts
                             of institutionalmandates inter-agency cooperation and strategic      betweendifferent levels
                             andpoor inter-agency       planning for conservation management      of govemment -
                             coordination in            inthe CFR (1.1.)by facilitating the       national, provincial and
                            biodiversity conservatior resolution of legal mandates, assessing     local -may compromise
                             inCFR.                     the role of the NBI; and developing a     inter-agency cooperation


                                                        - 80 -

                           eneric performance management             md coordination.
                          ystem to ensure alignment with
                          :.A.P.E. It will also address the
                           lignment of the Catchment
                          LanagementAgencies with biodiversity
                           onservationobjectives.


.Skills development        i. The Project will support a coordinated skills developedin
rogramsare ad-hoc and .pproachacross institutions for training,      igency staff are not
ot part of a               killsdevelopmentand                       .etainedwithin the
Dmprehensive               :ross-institutionalskill sharing (1.2).   nstitutions as staff losses
istitutional capacity                                                xcur with the
uilding strategy.                                                    :onsequent skills drain.


. Informationon            i.TheProjectwill addressthelack ofa       4genciesdo not perceive
iodiversity is scattered   :oherentinformation management            falue of a coherent
crossvarious agencies      ,ystemby establishingaC.A.P.E.            xoss-institutional
nd is of inappropriate      nformationManagementUnit, which          information managemen
uality and resolution.     w i l l provide reliable information to   system and resortto
                           and-use planners, conservation agencies   legacyinformation
                           md municipalities and will assist inthe   systems.
                           ievelopment of skills andknowledge
                            ransfer. (1.4). It will also ensure that
                            nformation managementfor protected
                           ireas managementis appropriately
                            mplemented acrossthe protectedarea
                           system (4.2).



'.The current protected 7. The Project will consolidatethree         Political, public and
rea system is              3riority protected areas, to ensure that  financial support cannot
nadequateto achieve        the broad-scaleplanning is                be gainedto establish,
:lobal conservation        Dperationalizedto meet regional pattern   consolidate and manage
argets for biodiversity ii  andprocesstargets, and particularly in    large and complex
he CFR; existing large      developing the linkages through critical  protected areas.
irotectedareas include      lowland habitats (4.1). Inaddition it wil
andunder a variety of       pilot the enhancement of formal
irotection designations     protectedarea status for the top two
mdmanagedby several priority freshwater and estuarine
ruthorities.Critically      systems inthe CFR, reflecting a wide
hreatenedlowland            range of environmental, socio-economic
iabitatsare poorly          and managementconditions (4.1). The
 epresented.                Project will also implement
                            managementplanning for priority
                            marine protected areas inthe CFR
                            reflecting a variety of conditions inboth
                            the Indian and Atlantic Oceancontexts
                            4.1).

 8. Adequate                8. The Project will support the            Zxecuting Agencies do
nechanisms and              developmentof aPerformance                 not support and maintair
 ndicatorsto assess the     ManagementSystemin the context of          the Performance


                            -81     -

                       :ffectiveness of protected he four major managementagencies          [anagement Systems.
                       irea managementare         esponsiblefor protectedareas inthe
                        acking.                   :FR (5.2); Inaddition, the overall
                                                  vlonitoring andEvaluation System will
                                                  insurethat key outcomesand impacts
                                                  r e assessedand evaluatedacross the
                                                  'roject (4.1).

ii)Threatenedlowland   1. There are no effective   ,2 and 3. The Project will investigate   i x incentivesmeasures
ynbos and renosterveld incentives for             he application of specific tax incentive  e not acceptable to
ighly fragmented.      land-ownersto conserve     neasuresto support land-owners to          licy-makers.
                       ?riority areas -           :onserveirreplaceablebiodiversity in
                       including inadequate       hreatenedlowland areas (5.4). I t will
                       ?olicyand legal            ilso ensure that municipal Integrated
                       :nvironment for such       Ievelopment Plans reflect biodiversity
                       incentives.                riorities, thereby constraining
                                                  nappropriateuses (5.2), and it will
                        2. Local rates provide a  xiild coordinatedextensionservicesto
                       disincentive to            upport land-owners directly (5.3).
                       land-ownersto retain
                       land as private
                       conservationareas.

                       3. Highpriority
                        conservationareas in
                        lowlands are not
                        incorporated into the
                        current land-use
                        planning system and
                        therefore legal
                        constraints are not
                        available.

                        4. Inadequate             4. The Project will support fine-scale    'hefine-scale
                        information on status     :onservation planning (5.l),  integrating iformation is not effectc
                        and distribution of       the outputs into government spatial       ndbecomesquickly
                        biodiversity in lowlands  planning and building capacity at the     utdated.
                        (including lack of        municipality level (5.2); it will also
                        relevant expertiseto      supportthe establishment of C.A.P.E.
                        collect these data and of [nformation ManagementUnit (1.4)
                        standardized system for   which will provide reliable, quality
                        information gathering,    information in user-friendly formats to
                        management and            decision-makersand support staff
                        communication).           involved in land-useplanning and the
                                                  conservationof biodiversity inthe
                                                  currently unprotectedmatrix.

                        5. Landowners unaware     5. Conservationeducationprocesses are
                        of alternative            aimedat enabling abroad awareness
                        conservation land-use     and action competence among
                        options.                  stakeholdersat all levels regarding
                                                  biodiversity values and opportunities
                                                  (2.1); and the identificationo f



                                                  - 82 -

                                                      :ntrepreneurialopportunities increase
                                                      he options available to land-owners (5.4


  11. Habitat degradationinside and outside protected
:i)Spreadof invasive      I 1.Alien  clearing          ,2,3. Effective control strategiesand     Political andhence
ilienplant species results priorities are not linked  neasuresdevelopedby the Centers of         government support for
.nalteredhydrology,        to biodiversity             ?xcellencein IAS management(6.2)          Working for Water
iltered soil properties,   conservationpriorities.     w i l l be implemented as part of the     program declines
icceleratedsoil erosion                               )vera11CFR IAS strategy (6.2);             (possibly mitigated by
indincreasedfire           2. Long-term bioregional mproved efficiency of control                having a major
frequency and intensity.   strategic andbusiness       echniques for establishedalien            Education, Awareness
                           planning for invasive      xograms brought about by the IPM and and Training program
                           alien clearing is lacking. 3iocontrol activities of the Centers of    aimed at building
                                                       3xcellence(6.2); alien clearing           popular support for this
                           3. Biocontrol agents still ictivities will also be conductedas        Project (2.1).
                           have limitedimpacts.        ntegral part of high impact
                                                       nanagementprograms (6.2).
(ii) Inappropriate fire     1. Overlapping             1,2. The Project will support the         New FPAs do not receive
regimes result in           responsibilities for fire  ncorporation of biodiversity concerns     adequate financing to
alteration of soil          management.                .ntothe new fire managementsystem         enable themto control
propertiesand erosion                                  r6.1).                                    fire regime effectively;
effects.                    2. Fire management                                                   Fire legislation not
                            strategies focus on                                                  amended so as to reduce
                            prevention and do not                                                liability of authorities
                            integratebiodiversity                                                attempting to carry out
                            managementissues.                                                    planned fires which then
                                                                                                 escape and do damage to
                            3. Lack of resources to                                              adjacent landowners'
                            manage fires.                                                        property,

(iii) Physical              1. Biodiversity aspects    1,The Project supports improved           Political support for
development: urban          not integrated into the    land-use planning approaches(5.1 & 5.2 ecologically sound
developmentinhighly         coastalzone                ) which will contribute to                 land-use planning
vulnerable habitatsi4x4     developmentplans.          mainstreamingbiodiversity inland-use       decision-making and for
trackdmining activity in                               decision-making aidedby fine scale         the researching,
the coastalzonebridges in                              biodiversity informationbeing made         management and
estuarine areas impair                                 available for priority areas (5.1 & 5.2).  monitoring of estuaries
water flows and natural                                                                           inthe CFR, is not
sedimentmovement                                                                                  forthcoming.
patterns; increased
disturbance inbiologically
sensitive areas (sound and
air pollution).

                            2. Recreationalactivities 2. Carrying capacities properly             Monitoring and
                             inthe estuarine           quantified, accepted, and enforcedby       enforcementof
                            ecosystemsexceedthe        relevant authorities in accordancewith     development planning is
                            carrying capacity.         the CFR Estuarine Management               not adequateto prevent
                                                       Program (6.3).                              illegal inappropriate
                                                                                                   developments.
                                                                                                  Local special interest
                                                                                                   groups are allowed to



                                                       - 83 -

                                                                                              have their views prevail
                                                                                              onthis issue of estuary
                                                                                              mouth breaching, and
                                                                                              carrying capacity and
                                                                                              remainunconvinced o f
                                                                                              the benefits o f
                                                                                              ecologically sound
                                                                                              breaching regimes and of
                                                                                              enforcing ecologically
                                                                                              sound limits to
                                                                                              recreational use o f the
                                                                                              estuaries.

.v) Over-abstraction of     .Water management         1. Water supply increased to meet
rater from the CFR's       lrograms do not            jemand through effective alien woody
urface and ground water    ntegratebiodiversity       plant removal programs incatchment
:sources leads to          spects.                    xeas (see I1(i)).
reversible pollution o f
reshwater aquifers by salt                            2. The Project will support the
later intrusion in coastal                            incorporation o f biodiversity concems
reas. Habitat loss results                            into water conservatiodwater demand
rom improvements.                                     managementprogram; (6.1).


                                                      3, Over-abstraction prevented by the
                                                      rigorous implementation by well
                                                      capacitated Catchment Management
                                                      Authorities (6.1) o f the "Ecological
                                                      Reserve" measure to all aquatic            Global climate change
                                                      ecosystems inthe CFR (6.1).                leads to such significant
                                                                                                 declines inwater supply
                                                                                                 or increases in water
                                                                                                 demand in the CFR, thal
                                                                                                 human management o f
                                                                                                 the system becomes
                                                                                                 impossible.
                                                                                                ~




 111.Loss ofbiodiversity
i)Alienspecies(plants      1. Introduction o f ballast 1. Effective prevention (e.g. ballast     The alien fish angling
ndfish) displace the       water.                     water introductions preventedthrough       fraternity continue to
iative species, most o f                              the GEF supported GloBallast southem       promote their hobby,
hemthreatened:                                        African program).                          even once they have bee
                                                                                                 informed as to the
 0  Marine organisms       2. Currently, there is no 2. Control strategies and measures          unsustainable nature o f
 0  Aquatic plants         coordinated approach for developed for the marine and freshwater this activity. Inthe worse
                           controlling invasive       alien species, incooperation with the      case scenario they could
                           species inpriority areas   Centers o f Excellence inIAS               actively oppose the
                           for conservation.          management (6.2) and implementedas         control o f alien fish in
                                                      part o fthe overall CFR IAS strategy.      priority freshwater
                                                                                                 ecosystems and even
                                                                                                 sabotage these pilot
                                                                                                 schemesby
                                                                                                 re-introducing alien fish



                                                      - 84 -

                                                                                            nto clearedsections of
                                                                                            ivers.

                                                                                            Zontrol of aquatic
                                                                                            nvasive alien plants does
                                                                                            lot continue receiving
                                                                                            ;overnmental support
                                                                                            possibly mitigated by
                                                                                            !.l).

.i)
  Over-exploitation of    .Understandingof         . Scientifically soundmaximal            Jser groups remain
atural resources:         cosystemfundamentals     ustainableuse levels for major           inconvinced as to the
                          ictatingsustainable      xploited living resourcesare set and     iesirability of controlling
ktuarine fish and bait    `ff-takesremains         mplementedas part of the CFR              heir off-take of exploitec
rganisms are declining.   iadequateat all levels.  lstuarine Management Program (6.3).      ipeciesinthe short-term
                                                                                             nthe interestsof
                                                                                            ieightened harvestable
                                                                                             evels in the medium and
                                                                                             ong-term.
darine resources -        .The regulatory           . The Project will support piloting     Elements in these user
nefish,abaloneandWesi nforcement regime is         nnovative managementarrangements         groups defy use
:east rock lobster are in rnperfectlydeveloped.    or sustainableuse of living coastal and  *egulationsand
erious decline, due to                             narine resources(4.2) -testing new       mforcement capacity or
oaching.                                           :o-managementarrangementswith the        socialpressures are
                                                   ishing communities; strengthening        inadequateto regulate
                                                   )olicingcapacitiesof conservation         this illegal off-take (as is
                                                   bgencies; designing of set asides as      2urrently being
                                                   ishery managementtool.                    experiencedwith abaloni
                                                                                             inthe marine
                          !. Awarenessof viable    !. The Project will support a series of   environment of the
                          ,hernativesustainable    itrategic interventions which will leadto CFR).
                          and-uses (tourism/       :stablishing the foundations for a
                          ustainableflower         `biodiversity economy" (5.4).
                          iarvesting) limited
                          rmongst land-holders
                          md capital markets.

her-harvesting of wild     .The regulatory         rhiswork is beingpilotedthrough the       Enforcement capacity of
ynbos for the flower      :nforcementregime is     2.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity            the relevant authorities
rade, herbal medicinesor mperfectly developed.     nitiative and will not be duplicated in   remains inadequateto
ierbal teas may contribute                         'base 1 as the results of AB1 will be     regulateillegal off-take
D extirpation of rare                              .oiledout inthe CFR during Phase 2.       of these plant products.
pecies, including
ndemics.                  !.The marginal costs of
                          zosystem management
                          o facilitate sustainable
                          ise are not recovered;
                          'rofits accrue elsewhere
                          nthe value chain (high
                          nark ups at retail end
                          elative to farm gate).

                          I.Marketopportunities

                      are presently focused on
                      few selectedflowers;
                      Indiscriminatemarket
                      andproductfocused
                      value chain.Niche
                      market not developed
                      becauseof supply driven
                      market.

                                              Fully capacitatedCMAs (1.1) hold
freshwater ecosystems                         pollution at acceptablelevels, aided in enforcement of water
from agricultural,                            thisby well definedwater quality        quality management for
industrial and urban                           criteria in the "Ecological Reserve"   CFR aquatic systems
effluents.                                     measuredevelopedfor CFR systems (6.1 does not receive adequate
                                               ) andby goodguidelines as to howthis   political support, and
                                               canbe achieved, derivedfrom the three  hence funding, so as to
                                               water conservatiodwaterdemand          be effective.
                                               managementpilot programs (6.1).




                                                - 86 -

                       Additional Annex 13: Socio-EconomicAssessment
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project

 Context

 Duringthe processofformulatingthe CAPE2000 Strategy, anextensiveprocessofstakeholder
 consultation andparticipation was undertaken,involving a systematic identificationo f all stakeholders in
 the CFR who could influence biodiversity conservation or be affected by it. Stakeholders were involved in
 developing the analysis, strategy and action plan. Participation inthe CAPE 2000 Strategy processwas
 structuredto allow different degrees and levels of involvement by differentgroups, dependingon their
 preference and on the roles that they would play inimplementation. Executing Agencies that would be
 responsiblefor the implementation o f C.A.P.E. were involved closely inproject governance throughout the
 processinorder to develop a sense o f ownership and to guarantee long-term sustainability o f the initiative.
 A media campaign was undertakento informthe broader publicofthe CAPE 2000 Strategyprocessand
 outputs. Information was made available through a website, brochures and public presentations.

 Inthe period since September 2000, the commitment andinvolvement ofgovernment agencies andother
 key stakeholdershas beensustainedand enhanced. Key stakeholder partnerships, supportedby two
 Memoranda o fUnderstandingbetween government agencies and other stakeholders,have guided
 preparation activities.

 Duringthe project preparation phase, arapidassessment ofstakeholderand social issueswas undertaken
 as part o fproject preparation inan effort to:
 0    Identifykey stakeholderswith biodiversity conservationinterests inthe CFR
 0    Review stakeholder interests and associatedimpacts on resourceuse and the Project;
 0    Identifyandmitigate againstpossible negative socio-economic impacts on local stakeholdersresulting
      from the Project; and
 0    Develop a mitigation strategy.

 Project preparation was undertaken ina participatory manner, involving a broad range o f stakeholder
 groups usinga numberof different information gathering methods, including formal and semi-formal
 interviews, group discussions and workshops, and literature review. Inaddition, local consultants
 participating inproject preparation provided information and contributed to the identification o f risks,
 impacts and mitigationstrategies.

 Key social issues: The key social issues relevant to the CFR, as identified inthe project preparation stage
 were analyzedaccording to the following categories: (i)    population; (ii)
                                                                           economy; (iii) history; (iv)
                                                                                         cultural
 governance and development; (v) perceptions o f conservation; and (vi) capacity.

 Pouulation: The CFR covers two provinces, the Western and EasternCape, with a very small portion
 falling into the NorthernCape. The region contains an estimated5.2 millionpeople, most o f whom inhabit
 the WesternCape province (est. 4.5 million). The population inthe regionis highlyurbanized, with over
 70% of the Western Cape population livinginthe Cape MetropolitanArea, and similar patterns pertaining
 inthe portionofthe CFRthat falls intothe EasternCapeprovince. The populationofthe Western Cape
 enjoys a greater degree o f human, economic and social development than their Eastern Cape counterparts.
 The EasternCape has the secondlowest scoreonthe HumanDevelopment Index of South Africa's nine
 provinces. Italso has the highestunemployment rate inthe country and the secondlowest per capita
 income. This gives rise to relatively highlevels of urbanization from rural areas inthe Eastern Cape to the



                                                      - 87 -

WestemCape and Cape Town inparticular. Urbanization rates have been particularly highsince the
abolition o f influx control policies inthe late 1980's, leading to a markedincrease inurban informal
settlements. Human and environmental health issues, fire and flooding impose a distinct burdenon
resources, services and infrastructure of authorities. The effect o f this has been a reduced focus on rural
development issues inthis regioninfavor of an increasingconcem with urban development priorities.
Urbanenvironmental concemstendto focus onpollutionandwaste managementwith limitedconcem for
biodiversity, despite the impact o f the urban systemon ecosystems andhabitat. This indicates a needfor
increasedawareness-raising and education activities amongst the urban communities o fthe CFR.

The populationofthe regionis characterizedby diversityanddisparities, interms o f ethnicity, language,
skills, income andresources. Between ethnic groups there are significant disparities of skills, educational
levels, incomeslwealth, livingconditions and access to opportunities, the result o f a history o f inequality
andracially skewedallocation ofresources. Inequalities contribute to a rangeof social problems, including
homelessness, poverty, unemployment, degradedhumanenvironments and crime.

Economy: South Africa's Gross Domestic Product (ZAR R800 billion/US$l30 billion) has been increasing
at about 2-3% per annum over the past four years, with manufacturing contributing 20%) mininga
declining share o f 7% and the tertiary sector inexcess o f 60%. Exports have increasedfrom RlOObillion
in 1995to R175 billion in 1999notwithstanding a significant decline ingold output. Per capitaGDP
(measured at PPP adjusted exchange rates) exceeds US$7,600, which equals that o f Malaysiaand Brazil.
SouthAfrica has an adult literacy rate of 85%, an average unemployment level o f above 30%, a housing
shortage o f about 2,3 million units and an infant mortality rate o f 65 per 1,000.

Inthe 200011Africa Competitiveness Report ofthe World Economic Forum, SouthAfrica ranked7thout
o f the 51countries on the continent. Internationally South Africa can beenrankedamongst "upper middle
income countries" like Chile, Portugal, Korea, Malaysia, Turkey, Brazil and Poland.

Since the political change of 1994, South Africa has madegreat stridestowards a democratic, socially
more equitable and economically more globally competitive country. Recentgrowth in the SouthAfrican
economy has largelybeenbasedon the tourism sector, a gradually diversifyingand increasingly
competitive manufacturing sector, value-adding beneficiation o f mineral and agriculturalraw materials and
a sophisticatedtrading, financial andprofessional services sector. Currently, the country is lifting the level
of education, training and entrepreneurial development o f its labor force, a critical factor inthe creation o f
more employment opportunities and greater intemational competitiveness.

The Westem Capeproduces 14% ofthe annual GDP of SouthAfrica andis the secondmost productive
province. It generates nearly a quarter o f the South African agricultural sector's GDP (23%) and accounts
for more than half o f its agricultural exports. 85% o f the arable land inthe Westem Cape is under
agriculture. The climatic and topographic diversity o fthe province lends itself to the production o fvarious
agricultural products, which can be produced for specific domestic and overseas niche markets. The sector
i s able to generate on average 5.9% o f the Westem Cape's Gross Regional Product per annum and employs
9% o f the province's labor force.

Travel and tourism contribute 9.1% to the Westem Cape Gross Regional Product, and 9.3% to Westem
 Cape employment. Inorder of preference, intemational visitors to South Africa visitedthe following
 destinations: V&A Waterfront, Cape Point, Table Mountain, the Winelands, the Garden Route,
 Kirstenbosch. Nature-basedtourism offers significant opportunities for economic growth and employment
 inbothurban and rural areas.



                                                       - 88 -

Incontrastto the WestemCape, the EastemCapeproducedonly 8% oftheNationalGDP in 1999. Itis
South Africa's secondmost populous province, with anunemployment figure o f49%. The metropolitan
economy o f Port Elizabeth, within the CFR, is basedprimarily on manufacturing. Other major industries
inthe province include agriculture, textiles and clothing, tourism, wool, timber andtransport. Witha
significant shift inthe agricultural sector from stock to game farming, tourism is becoming a major growth
industry. Nevertheless,rural districts within the CFR such as the Baviaanskloof region face general
economic decline and growing socio-economic problems. Unless new initiatives such as nature-based
tourism come to the fore, this decline is unlikely to be arrested.

Cultural history: The CFR is a rich repository o f cultural history. A wide diversity of historical artifacts,
builtenvironments andcultural traditions exist as reminderso fthe region's Palaeolithic, pre-colonial and
colonial history, as well as the Apartheid period. C.A.P.E. presentsdistinct opportunities to bothretainthe
charactero f the cultural history o f the regionand buildon it as an attraction.

Governanceand development: Recentpolitical and institutionalchanges, including the democratization of
local govemment, have createdwide opportunities for participatory development. Integrated Development
Planspreparedrecently by all local authorities inthe region indicate a wide array o f interventions required
for local development, includingprovisiono f basic servicesand the promotiono f economic andsocial
development. C.A.P.E. will align closely with the integrateddevelopmentplanningobjectives o f local
govemment inthe CFR by ensuring that biodiversity concems are incorporated into municipal land-use
planning inpriority areas.

Perceptionso f conservation: Throughout South Africa andthe CFR, perceptions of disadvantagedgroups
towards conservation are influenced by a history o f colonial conquest and landdispossession. Therefore,
the C.A.P.E. will take these factors into accountinits design of the conservationeducationcomponent.

Capacity: There is a marked disparity incapacity levels betweendifferent social groups inthe CFR,
particularly with regard to participating inProject activities. This factor has been closely addressedand
incorporated into the design and implementation o f C.A.P.E. Three areas of consideration are important in
this respect:
0    Disparities inknowledge levels between stakeholder groups with respectto a basic understandingof
     conservation and biodiversity ingeneraland specifically inthe CFR
0    Disparities inparticipation skills, as well as applied skills relatedto the implementation o f key aspects
     o f the C.A.P.E.; and
0    Disparities inmaterial resourcesat the disposal o f stakeholder groups.

Participationplan

The challenge ofparticipation at bioregional scale: A Conservationprogram at bioregional scale is faced
with significant challenges regarding participation. The stakeholder group is vast, dispersedacross a wide
area and characterizedby diversity interms o f language, culture, history, and relationship to the land and
sea. The populationdisplays significant socio-economic and educational disparities, as well as disparities
inskills andaccess to resources. Mostofthe populationis concentratedintwo major metropolitanareas
(Cape Town and Port Elizabeth), but there is a significant rural populationoften characterizedby dire
poverty. Many well-organized groups exist, including strong NGO, private sector and trade union
organizations, but community-based organizations have withered significantly inthe last decade. While
govemment agenciesand large organizations with a broad base inthe bioregion can participate in
conservation programs taking place at bioregionalscale, it is difficult for local stakeholder groups to do so,
beingmore suitedto participating inlocalprojects. To prevent local groups beingmarginalized from the


                                                      - 89 -

broad-scale policy and strategy aspects of the Project, the Project will undertake a suite o f overall and local
awareness-raising, communication andparticipation activities and will monitor impacts.

A new democratic diwensation: The BillofRights inthe SouthAfrican Constitution(1996)provides all
citizens with the rightto an environment that is not harmfulto their health or well-being, andto have the
environment protected for the benefit ofpresent and future generations,through reasonablelegislative and
other measures. New constitutional and legislative provisions require public consultation andtransparency
ingovemment decision-making, andpresentnew opportunities for participation inenvironmental
decision-making. The democratic culture engenderedinpolitical struggle and the democratization process
has createdan expectation and a desire on the part of citizens to be involvedmeaningfully in
decision-making on all issues includingthe environment. There is neverthelessa needto prevent
marginalization o f disadvantagedgroups such as the poor, rural communities andwomen and ensure equity
o f access and benefitsharing at Project level. This can be achievedthrough well-designed participation
plans and targetedenvironmental education at Project level, to enhance the ability of such groups to
participate effectively, and to encourageownership of and commitment to implementation.

Increasedawareness and enthusiasm: Inspite o f limitedawareness, knowledge and understandingo f
biodiversity inthe CFR, communities display increasing levels o f interest inenvironmental issues,
demonstrate enthusiasticresponses to awareness-raisingactivities inlocal conservation projects, and
display significant levels o f indigenous knowledge. A recent participation exercise undertaken inthe
neighboring SucculentKaroo Biome with similar socio-economic conditions revealed enormous potential
for local leadershipandaction partnerships inconservationprojects. However, there is a need to develop
stakeholder understandingof how to engage effectively with suchprojects.

Participatory mechanisms

Eacho f the Project componentshas associatedparticipation mechanismswhich are to be adopted inthe
implementation of the Project. These mechanismsare set out inthe following table.




                                                     - 90 -

ComDonent             'artichation activities
 1.Institutional      PartnershipsiNegotiatedagreements
 strengthening        Participation activities underthis heading include the facilitation o f a
                      consensus buildingprocess for the resolution o f legalmandates and lead
                      institutional roles inthe conservation management o f the CFR.
                      Institution development
                      Participation activities under this heading include reviewingthe
                      composition and function o f the C.A.P.E. Coordination and C.A.P.E.
                      ImplementingCommittees.
                      Consultative processes
                      Participation activities under this heading include supporting participation
                      inProject activities.
 2. Conservation      PartnershipsiNegotiated agreements
  education           Participation activities underthis heading include the building of
                      partnershipsbetween education service providers.
                      Institution development
                      Participation activities underthis heading include the establishmentof a
                      formal network of biodiversity education service providers; creating the
                      capacity to provide stakeholderparticipation and conflict management
                      support.
                      Capacity building
                      Participation activities under this heading includes targeting the skills of
                      biodiversity education serviceproviders; developing the skills of all
                      stakeholders instakeholderparticipation and conflict management.
 3. Program           PartnershipsiNegotiated agreements
 coordination,        Participation activities under this heading include processes associatedwith
 management and       negotiating agreements with various agencies on participation inand
 monitoring           alignment with the Project, on the collection andreporting o fmonitoring
                      and evaluation data, and on implementing the outcomes of review
                      urocesses.
                      Capacity building
                      Participation activities under this heading includes the provision of training
                      to the C.A.P.E. project managers.
                      Consultative processes
                      Participation activities underthis heading includethe participatory
                      undertaking o f monitoringand evaluation exercises, as well as strategic
                      review processes.
 4. Protected areas   Policy, strategy, regulation and plan formulation
                      Participatory activities underthis heading include: Overarching plans for
                      the CFR, including the processto formulate policy and a strategic
                      management framework for the ProtectedArea network as a whole; the
                      formulation and development o f tools andmechanismsfor securing
                      financial support; the development of an overarching financial
                      sustainability plan for the protected areas network; local area plans,
                      including the development o f systematic and strategic conservation plans
                      with conservation targets; and the development o f individual Marine


                                            -91  -

                       ProtectedArea managementplans.
                       Consultativeprocesses
                       Participation activities underthis heading include processes o f consultation
                       and dialogue with stakeholdersat the local and CFR levels and includes the
                       following: expanding protected areas through usingagency staff in
                       outreach activities with stakeholders; stakeholder involvement inprocesses
                       to secure the priority status of three river systems and three estuaries; and
                       the process for monitoring and evaluating the implementation o f Marine
                       ProtectedAreas.
                       PartnershipsNegotiatedagreements
                       Participation activities underthis heading include processes to expand
                       protected areas through the use o f fiscal and non-fiscal incentive
                       programs; and activities to coordinate the work o f various agencieswith
                       respectto biodiversity and resourceuse,
                       Institutiondevelopment
                       Participation activities underthis heading relate to processes associated
                       with the establishmento f a range o f structures, including: the
                       establishment of appropriate CFR-wide institutional arrangements;
                       establishinga conservation trainingnetwork; andarange ofworking
                       groups relatedto managing the expansiono f the protected area network,
                       as well as the consolidation of the protected status o f three estuaries and
                       three river svstems.
                       Capacitybuilding
                       Participation activities underthis heading relate to the content to be
                       incorporated into a range o f capacity buildingactivities, which include
                       buildingfocusedproject managementteams for the development ofthe
                       protected areanetwork; providing short-term start up support to assist
                       the initiation o f new protected areas; strengtheningconservation
                       management inthe Eastem Cape, buildingthe capacity o f law
                       enforcementpersonnel,and the rollingout of an education and
                       awareness program for Marine Protected Areas.

5. Biodiversityeconomy Policy,strategy, regulationand planformulation
and conservation       Participation activities underthis heading include policy and planning
stewardship            processes which will call on the participation of stakeholdersat the
                       CFR-wide and local levels. The CFR-wide activities include processes to
                      lobby for legislative change, and to develop socio-economic instruments for
                       application in localized planning and developmentprocesses. Local level
                      planningactivities inpriority areas will include stakeholder participationin
                       developing conservation plans for priority municipal districts; the
                      development of action plans and guidelines; and, the roll out o f a pilot
                      planningproject to test landmanagement tools and protocols. Further
                       activities underthis heading include those associatedwith designingand
                      testingmarket basedmechanismsincluding tax breaks andpayment for
                      ecological services, andencouraging community eco-enterprise
                       development around conservation objectives.
                       Consultativeprocesses
                      Participation activities underthis heading include activities that will require


                                             - 92 -

              the facilitation andmediationof stakeholderparticipation in:processesof
              lobbying for, andnegotiating, supportive policy and legislation,
              participation inmunicipal developmentforums andthe mediation of
              land-use conflicts.
              Partnerships/Negotiatedagreements
              Participation activities underthis heading includes the forging of
              partnershipswith the Working for Water programregarding the
              application of incentives and cooperativemanagement arrangements;
              and negotiatedand sustainedrelationships with farmers.
              Institutiondevelopment
              Participation activities underthis heading include the formulation and
              implementation of a range of working groups and forums. They include
              institutional coordination mechanismsinthe form o f a provincial
              incentives working group; liaison structures with the agricultural sector
              inthe formofforums involvingfarmers; and, researchcoordination in
              the form ofthe Fynbos Forumandother ad hoc forums.
              Capacity building
              Participation activities underthis heading include training in
              participation and conflict managementskills for decision-makers and
              officials involvedin land-usedecision-making andbuildingskills in
              partnership creation.
              Policy, strategy, regulationandplanformulation
management    Participation activities underthis heading include participatory processes
              associatedwith the development of an overarchinn planfor 2 estuaries.
              Consultativeprocesses
              Participation activities under this heading include overarching consultative
              processes for the development of an invasive alien species strategy; and,
              processes for the formulation of national policy, legislation and guidelines.
              Institution development
              Participation activities under this heading includethe establishment and
              management of a set o f working groups to: guidethe estuary planning
              process at the provincial level; to bringinstitutions together to align the
              C.A.P.E. objectives with the five CFR catchment management agencies;
              and, a multi-institutional referencegroup on invasive alien species.
              Capacitybuilding
              Participation activities under this heading are aimed at incorporating
              content on stakeholder management inthe capacity buildingactivities
              associatedwith the implementation o f estuarv ~ l a n s .




                                    - 93 -

         Additional Annex 14: Description of the C.A.P.E. Program and the Project
SOUTH AFRICA. C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservation and Sustainable Development Project


 1.Purposeof the Note

 The purposeof this note is to explain the rationalebehindGEF investmentinthe CFR includingthe
 linkages and complementarity betweenthe various GEF supportedinterventions.

 2. C.A.P.E. Program

 The CFR harbors exceptional biodiversity, exemplified by highspecies richness, habitat diversity and
 gamma diversity, or turnover across the ecological landscape. This vital heritage faces accelerating
 anthropogenic pressures, spurring leading scientists to list the region as one o f the world's "hottest"
 biodiversity hotspots. Giventhe great ecological heterogeneity, social differences, economic stratification,
 and variation ininstitutional and individual capacitiesacross the CFR's landscape, it is evident that a
 number o f different conservation approaches are neededto satisfy conservation objectives. The challenge
 is multifold (i) conservation objectives needto be aligned with those o fthe production sectors and
 mainstreamedinto the economic and social sectors; and (ii) conservation estate needs to be expanded
                                                               the
 through public-private sector collaboration. Over its 20 year time-scale, the C.A.P.E. Program aims at
 expanding the area undereffective protected area management from 10,800 km2 (12% o f the CFR) to
 30,800 km2 (34.2% of the CFR), assumingthat a further 13,000 km2 (14.44% of CFR) will persist
 because of its inaccessibility for any development.

 Conservation activities will be backstoppedby a strong policy framework, capacitatedinstitutions, new
 financial mechanismsand other instruments neededto assure the sustainability and cost-effectivenesso f
 management. An overridingobjective is to create the foundations for a "biodiversity economy": linkingthe
 environmental benefits of the CFR directly to economic growth and livelihood creation. This will be
 achieved through nurturingthe development of conservation compatible industries, such as nature-based
 tourism, and assuringthe sustainableutilization of wild resources,mainstreaming conservation objectives
 into the production sectors, particularly agriculture, and creating markets for environmental services
 underpinningthe natural resourcesectors.

 The GoSA is addressingthe afore-mentioned challenges, through a comprehensiveand long-term
 programmatic framework entitled Cape Action for People and the Environment (C.A.P.E.). The C.A.P.E.
 Program aims at implementingthe Cape Action Planfor the Environment (CAPE 2000 Strategy),
 completed in September2000, with financial support from the GEFIWE3 Project: Cape Peninsula
 Biodiversity Conservation Project. The Strategy involvedbroad-basedstakeholderinvolvement. The
 CAPE 2000 Strategy provides a long-term vision for biodiversity conservation inthe CFR, identifies
 conservation priorities basedon an assessment o f the threats to biodiversity, and articulates an action plan
 and investment program to address these priorities. All key govemment conservation and development
 agenciesand major NGOs and private sector associations inthe CFR have aligned themselves to the CAPE
 2000 vision, and to the accompanying strategy.
 Further, in2001, the GoSA approved a medium-termGEF Project Priority Framework, identifying
 strategic areas for GEF investment, neededto catalyze a broad spectrum o f environmental management
 endeavorsof highnational priority. A key objective o f the Framework is to expand conservation activities
 to encompass whole ecological landscapes, focusing on biomes by seeking to "integrate conservation
 objectives into the productive sectors, strengthenland-useplanning and monitoring functions, develop and


                                                      - 94 -

support implementation o f conservationmodels, establish new institutional andoperational mechanisms,
and establish new conservation partnershipsbridging the public and private sectors" GEF Medium-Term
Project Priority Framework 2000 [Para 2.111. The CFR was identifiedas a top priority for GEF
intervention, to secure these intendedoutcomes.
The desimparametersfor the C.A.P.E. Program and the Project buildon policy guidance suppliedby the
GEF Executive Council inMay 2001, following review andendorsementofthe policy on Programmatic
Approaches. The GEF investment inthe Project is consistent with the design elements o f GEF Council
Paper, GEF/C. 17.Inf.11 "the GEF Programmatic Approach: Current Understandings":
0   Provision o f informationon the enabling environment, including policy, legal and institutional
    arrangementsand in-country capacity;
0   Agreedgoals, objectives, milestones and indicators ofoutcomes/impactsfor each phase ofthe Project,
    with specific details for the phase seekingapproval;
0   Development of a learning and adaptive managementsystem, including monitoring and evaluation
    plans, with specific details for the phase seekingapproval; and
0   Provision of a financing plan for the entire program includingthe envelope of request from the GEF,
    the mainpartnersand their contributions (including the country). As a minimumthe details o f the first
    phase should be clearly spelt out andthe co-financing arrangementssecure.

Phasedapproach: Program activities are being scheduledover 20 years, thereby providing an adequate
time budget to systematically address current andemergentthreats to biodiversity andassure sustainable
management. Interventions will be phased, with three distinct stages anticipated.
Phase 1(5 years) will be characterizedby measures being tested and taken to arrest biodiversity losses in
the CFR. The GEF support will focus on establishing a systemic andinstitutional enabling environment
for conservation anddeveloping know-how to address key threats androot causes o f biodiversity losses.
(See Annex 12, Threats Analysis). Lessons learnt from other GEF support to South Africa will be
replicated whilst also piloting and demonstrating new approaches to conservation. This phasewill result in
substantial gains beingmade inexpanding the area underprotected area management (4,000 km2).
Importantly it will lay the basis for what is termed "the biodiversity economy". The term is usedto
describe a region and an economy which grows with minimal negative impact on natural systems,
rehabilitates the regions ecological capital and supports sustainableeconomic growth and employment
opportunities presentedby the regions unique biodiversity andenvironment. GEF, Phase 1support,
consists o f support to three activities: This Project, the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fundand the
C.A.P.E. Agulhas Plain Biodiversity Initiative.

Phase 2 (5-6 years), will be characterizedby a significant expansionof capacity to conserve the CFR with
most key areas secured underprotected area management. Conservation interventions will bringan
additional 7,600 km2 (8,4%) into the conservation estate, including protected areas, buffers and other
support zones, where conservation objectives have beenmainstreamedinto development. Institutionaland
individualcapacity will be expandedthrough local government and community conservation programs.

InPhase3 (7-8 years), thematurephaseoftheprogram, marketsareexpectedtoplayakeyrolein
conserving and evenrestoring the ecological capital o f the CFR. The goals o fthe C.A.P.E. Program
should be met with a further 7,600 km2 (8,4%) inductedinto the conservation estate. Institutional
arrangementsfor ecoregional scale management will be strengthened, programmatic links strengthened
between biodiversity, climate change, and water managementinitiatives. The root causes and key threats to
the conservation ofthe CFR should havebeen significantly eliminated. This phase will be funded
domestically, but with some technical support still providedby the World Bankand the UNDP.



                                                      - 95 -

  Mainstreaming: The Project will focus on mainstreaming biodiversity conservation objectives into all the
  productive sectors, the bioregional economy and key government programs.

  Public-private partnership: strong emphasis is placed on deepening the role o f the private sector in
  conservation and related activities. Differentiated strategies will be pursued for different sectors (tourism,
  fisheries and agriculture) and large, medium andsmall enterprises. The key program challenge is to
  leverage substantial private sector investment into rehabilitating the ecological capital o f the CFR, thereby
  also supporting economic growth andemployment. Since much o f the landto be conserved is owned
  privately, models will be developedfor inducting it into the conservation estate. Even where state land is to
  be included, the maintenance costs and management requirements are likely to exceed state resources.
  Therefore, a range o fpublic-private sector models will needto be developed andtested inorder conserve
  the CFR. The creation o f large marine reserves will also require differentiated strategies.

  Intemationalpartnerships: The GoSA i s seeking partnerships with a range o fmulti-lateral and bilateral
  agencies and the private sector to create a diverse base o f experience, technical know-how and networks
  that may be drawn upon to strengthen actions. The international partnership currently primarilyincludes
  the World Bank, UNDP and the CEPF.

  Proiect coordination: The Project is characterized b y strategic program coordination, provided by the
  NBIiCCU to support executing agencies to attain project targets.

  Financial management and procurement: The financial management and procurement capacity o f the key
  executing agencies are sound. However, some additional support will be required inorder to implement the
  Project. Provision is made for this inthe Project.

  Performance: GEF funding for Phase 2 of the C.A.P.E. Program will be predicated on the realization o f
  the trigger indicators listed inSection A2 o f this document. Future funding will be closely tied to the
  performance o f Phase 1.

  Strategic priorities: Project interventions are aligned with new GEF Strategic Priorities, including for
  strengthening the national system o f protected areas, and mainstreaming biodiversity inproductive
  landscapes.

  The overall co-financing which the C.A.P.E. Program is anticipated to leverage over a 20 year period for
  each phase o f the Program is shown inthe table below. The ratio o f GEF support to non-GEF support is
  highlyfavorable. The current baseline funding for Phase 1, over 5 years, is inexcess o f $200 million and is
  not reflected inthese figures.


I Phase
  Fundingper phaseexcluding baseline for 20 years: $US million
                        I Co-funding         I GEF  funding including CEPF            1 Total
                                               (GEF) and Agulhas Plain
  Phase 1                 $44                  $15.5                                    $59.5
I Phase 2               IS55                 IS10                                     IS65                    I
  Phase 3                 $70                  $0                                       $70
  Total                   $169                 $25.5                                    $194.5




                                                        - 96 -

3. The Programcomponents

3.1 C.A.P.E.: BiodiversityConservationand SustainableDevelopmentProjectie "the Project"
Funding:                           GEF: US$11million; Co-Financing: US$28.51 million
GEF IA:                            World Bank (lead) and UNDP
ExecutingAgency:                   National BotanicalInstitute (NBI)
Duration:                          Five Years
Briefdescription: A funding application for work program inclusion was approved at the May 2003 GEF
Council meeting, concurrently with the C.A.P.E. Agulhas Plain Initiative, discussed below. The primary
objective o f the Project is to support the conservation o f the Cape Floristic Region (CFR) and adjacent
marine environment by laying a sound foundation for scaling up andreplicating successful Project
outcomes. It will do this by (i)  laying the foundation for mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy and
productive sectors. Activities will include: institutional strengthening, conservation education, program
coordination, management and developing a monitoring framework; and (ii)by undertaking carefully
targeted conservation demonstrations inselected biophysical, socio-economic and institutional contexts
with a view to scaling these up. Activities will include supporting protected area management; establishing
the foundations o f the biodiversity economy and integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed
management. Refer to Section C, Project description for more information.

Subject to the success o f the various GEF interventions, infive years time, The GoSA is anticipated to
lodge an application for GEF support to Phase 2 under this Program (see Table 1 for activities). Key
triggers for moving from Phase 1to Phase 2 will be:

 1. All C.A.P.E. signatory institutions directly support implementation o f the Project;
2. The number o f registered civil society stakeholders participating inthe Project increases by 30%;
3. A CFR-wide conservation education strategy is successfully designed and implemented across the
     Project area;
4. The Baviaanskloof, Cederberg and Garden Route protected areas have been consolidated;
5. The number ofjobs directly associated with conservation and nature-based tourism in Project
     intervention sites increases by 20%;
6. Spatial development frameworks insix representative lowland sites incorporate conservation priorities;
     and
7. Five- year targets for protectedarea status for irreplaceable BroadHabitat Units in lowlands and
     watersheds are met as defined by the C.A.P.E. 2000 Strategy.

Replication Plan: A replication and scaling up planwill be further developed during implementation under
component 3 as described insection F1.a o f this document. The replication plan will be developed together
with the proposed application to the GEF for a second tranche o ffinancial support, infive years time. It
will be developedby the CCU incooperation with stakeholders to the Project, including the CIC and the
CEC.

Comdementarity: The Project will ensure that key interventions inthe CFR are delivered on schedule and
that financial and technical resources dedicatedtowards conservation efforts are efficiently managed and
effectively targeted to maximize impact. The key Project components discussed above, are critical to the
conservation o f the CFR and are not being undertaken through other GEF interventions or funding
arrangements. The C.A.P.E. Program has already mobilized and motivateda substantial number o f
partners to begin implementation o f key activities using local resources and innovation. The Project will
ensure that lessons emerging from relevant C.A.P.E. Program activities are systematically applied across


                                                       - 97 -

the CFR planning domain. ProtectedArea demonstrations will complement the models already established
under the CPNP and to be established under the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative.

3.2 C.A.P.E.: Agulhas BiodiversityInitiative

Funding:                            GEF:US$3 million; Co-Financing: US$8 million
GEF IA:                             UNDP
ExecutingAgency:                    South African National Parks
Duration:                           Five Years

BriefdescriDtion: A funding application for work program inclusionwas approved at the May 2003 GEF
Council meeting, concurrently with the C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development
Project. The project will protect one o f the largest extant areas o f lowland fjmbos inthe CFR: the Agulhas
Plain. The Plain has beenmapped at fine-scale and identifiedpriority sites for biodiversity conservation.
Project activities will facilitate conservation inproductive landscapes by:
0    Operationalizing a new ProtectedArea representingdryland environments, Agulhas National Park, and
     outlying protected sites under contractual agreements with private land-owners. The initiative will pilot
     GoSA policies aimed at establishing Contractual Parks on private lands, installing the institutional
     arrangements, planning, monitoring and other PA management tools, and incentives that may be
     applied inthe CFR and nationally;
0    Developing institutional models and capacities to facilitate multi-stakeholder and inter-sectoral
     collaboration and public-private partnerships at a local level, on a pilot basis. The model will be tested
     and adapted, for replication under Phase 2 o f C.A.P.E. as well as within this Project;
0    Developing know-how, testing management arrangements for and optimizing benefits from the
     sustainable utilization o f wild fynbos, as a demonstration for C.A.P.E.;
0    Testing effective means for mainstreaming biodiversity management objectives into the local tourism
     industry,to inform tourism development activities under C.A.P.E.; and
0    Establishing critical know-how for the restoration o f degraded lands.

The project has been designed with a time budget o f five years. This will allow for best practices to be
codified inmanagement arrangements to be spearheadedinC.A.P.E. Phase2, which will be developed in
years four and five.

Comdementaritv: The primary objective is to develop new P A management models, mainstreamed into the
productive landscape to catalyze long-term sustainability both within the CFR's PA network, and
nationally. C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative has been designed as a fast track project, intended to
test a host o f initiatives planned under the national C.A.P.E. Program over 20 years, at a sub-regional level
withina time span of five years. The long-term objective o fthe GoSA and C.A.P.E. is to decentralize
conservation management as far as possible to the sub-regional level. AB1will provide a model and toolkit
to facilitate this process. Unlike other sites, the Agulhas Plain is ina highstate o f readiness for successful
 conservation intervention (following fine-scale planningand intensive stakeholder engagement under the
 Cape 2000 Strategy). The site thus provides an ideal venue for testing andadapting conservation models to
be spearheadedthroughout the CFR, andthus to reduce risks and enhance cost-effectiveness o f
 interventions. The initiative has been designed to inform the design and implementation o f C.A.P.E.. In
 addition, AB1will demonstrate: (i)model for management o f PAs inCFR lowlands, complementing the
                                       a
 model for montane ecosystems, already provided by the Table MountainNational Park; (ii)         the efficacy o f
 new institutional arrangements, linking protected areas, contractual parks and surrounding productive
 landscapes, and anchored by an integrated extension service; and (iii)   tested management models for
 sustainable wild fynbos harvesting and tourism. Close programmatic linkages with other GEF activities in


                                                       - 98 -

the CFR have beendevelopedduringpreparation. These will be maintained duringimplementation, to
facilitate the continued transfer o fkey lessons.

3.3 Critical EcosystemPartnership Fundfor the CFR (CEPF)

Funding:                           GEF: US$1.5 million; Co-Financing: US$4.5 million
GEFIA:                             World Bank
ExecutingAgency:                   Conservation International

Briefdescription: CEPF fundingfor the CFR was approved inDecember 2001bythe CEPF Donor
Council. An Ecosystem Profile has beenprepared, defining the strategic niche and value addedo f CEPF
activities inlight o f other planned interventions, fundedby the GEF, GoSA andother sources. Funding is
available for the following activities:
0    Supporting civil society involvement inthe establishment o fcommunity managedprotected areas (such
     as conservancies) and managementof biological corridors inthe Cederberg, Gouritz andBaviaanskloof
     areas;
0    Promotingpartnershipsbetween communities andprivate enterprises for conservation; and
0    Buildingcapacity for conservationwork amongstcivil society organizations inthe region, enabling
     themto participate meaningfully innew conservationpartnershipswith public institutions, parastatals
     and other organizations.

Comdementaritv: CEPF is funding conservationinitiatives ledby civil society organizations. Investments
are beingcarefully targetedto avoid any duplication o f effort with other GEF activities and maximize
synergies with the said activities. Efforts are focused on organizing and buildingcapacities within civil
society to implement conservation activities, taking a "learning by doing" approach. The objective is to
equip communities with core capacities andknow-how that will enablethemto collaborate as equal
partnerson larger conservation initiatives, initiatedthrough C.A.P.E. in Cederberg, Gouritz and
Baviaanskloof. The lack o f individual and institutional capacities at the community level currently
handicapseffective community involvement inlarger conservation interventions. CEPF funding is intended
to provide a flexible andrapidfunding mechanismto address immediate threats to biodiversity, where
prospects for success are high, and to augment long term fundingwindows. CEPF provides fundingfor
initialplanning, stakeholder organization andadvocacy, to create conditions necessaryfor the success of
larger long-term investmentsplannedinthe CFR.

Promam implementation and coordination arrangements: The C.A.P.E. Program, comprising o f the three
above-mentionedcomplimentary initiatives, is being steeredandmanagedat highlevel by the C.A.P.E.
Implementation Committee (technical committee comprising o f key execution agencies) andC.A.P.E.
Coordination Committee (National andProvincial level agents). On a day to day basis, the CCU provides
strong coordination support to the C.A.P.E. Program.

More importantly, the specific complimentary roles of each o f the above-mentionedactivities have been
plannedupfront as describedbelow. The CCU, together with the World Bank, UNDP and CI will review
the Program outputs on annual basis to ensure that alignment is maintained.




                                                      . - 99-

    4. Attachment 1: Summary/ complimentarity matrix

CATEGORY              DESCRIPTIONOF              he     AB1  2EPF rARGETED SITES/
                      GEF ACTIVITIES             roject           (OTES
a. Enabling.oolicvl
institutional
environment

A.i Program           Activity coordination,                      The Project
Management            reporting, integrated      <
                      monitoring andevaluation
                      systems, performance
                      managementtraining,
                      Promam development
4.ii Information      kvironmentalInformation                     The Project
Management            Systems
4.iii Systemic        'olicy integration                          The Project
:atlacities
4.iv Institutional    'rogrammatic integration           X        ABI: Sub Regional level
Framework             md institutional                            demonstration
                      :oordination at the
                      ;ub-regional level;
                      :apacity building
4.v Conservation      2ommunication, materials                    The Project
:ducation             levelopment, capacity                       ABI: Agulhas Plain
Systemic              milding, community                 X
Zoordination          'acilitation
[nformal Education
4.vi Civil society    4dvocacy, institutional                     CEPF: facilitated
3articipation         itrengthening
4.vii Market-based    Vew market-based                            The Project
instruments           nstruments developedfor
                      nainstreaming biodiversity
                      nto the economv
b. Conservationof
larpe habitatblocks

B.iProtectedAreas     Establishment and                           The Project: Cederberg,
Mountains             consolidation                           X   Garden Route,
Lowlands (drylands)   Fine-scaleplanning, legal                   Baviaanskloof, West Coast
Lowlands (forests)    incorporation,                          X   MPA.
Freshwater            developmentof PA                            Gouritz: Phase 2.
Estuarine             businessplans,                              CEPF will finance
Coastal/ Marine       performance management                      multi-stakeholder planning
                      systems, ecological                         activities at Cederberg,
                      surveys                                     Gouritz and Baviaanskloof
                                                                  PAS.
                                                                  ABI: Agulhas National Park
B.ii ProtectedAreas   Private Lands/ Communal                     The Project: Kogelberg


                                                 -100  -

Contractual Reserve  Lands                                    3iosphere Reserveand
Conservancies        Institutional                            :xtension of mega-reserves
Community Reserve    arrangements,legal
Private Sector       incorporation,                           =I: community
                                                                   Elim
(Eskom)              development o fbusiness                  'eserve, Groot Hagelkraal
Biosphere Reserve    plans, technical                         Zontractual Park, six private
                     assistance, to develop and               iature reserves, Walker Bay
                     adapt PA operations,                     ?ynbosConservancy
                     strengthen supervisory
                     functions, capacity
                     buildingfor land-owners
                     andcommunities to
                     manage contractual and
                     community reserves,
                     zoning
C. Conservationof
small habitat blocks
C.i Site             Fine-scale conservation                  The Project: UpperBreede
Prioritization       planning, conservation                   River Valley, Niewoudtville
Lowland fynbos       plans and guidelines          X          Plateau, North West
(drylands)                                                    Sandveld, Riversdale West
Lowlands (forests)                                 X          Coast Biosphere Reserve,
Coastal Renosterveld                                          South-east lowlands
                                                              TMF: Overberg/ Swartland
                                                              BolandandTable Mountain
                                                              National Park
XiLandscapeLevel    [ntegratedextension                       AI31will fundthe execution
vianagement         services, contractual and                 of a landscapelevel
                    nanagement agreements,                    conservationmanagement
                     3 n farm conservation                    plan for the Agulhas Plain
                     Aanning
XiMainstreaming      [ntegrateconservation                    The Project
iiodiversity in      danning into spatial                     ABI: Agulhas Plain
and-use planning     ?lanning, strengthen
                     land-use regulations,
                     :apacity buildingfor
                     nunicipalities
X v . Urbanplanning  Spatialplanning                          TMF: Port Elizabethand
                                                              CaDe Town
d. Land/watershed
degradation

D.iRestoration       Pilot activities, to acquire             The Project will support
Drylands (disused    know-how for ecological             X    designinga strategyto
farm lands)          restoration indegraded              X    managealien invasive species
Wetlands             areas
Renosterveld
1.iiIntegrating      [ntegrateconservation                    The Project: OlifantdDoring,



                                                   -101-

biodiversity into     objectives into operations           Berg, Breede, Gouritz,
watershed             o f Catchment Management             FisWTsitsikamma,
                      Authorities
                      Participatory design and             The Project will f h d the
Management            test a CFR estuarine                 :esting o f the estuarine
                      management program                   management program at 2
                                                           sites
D.iv Fire             Align baseline fire
Management            management system with
                      biodiversity conservation
                      objectives
                      Monitoring impacts o f fire
                      andpiloting appropriate
                      fire management regime, to
                      curtail land degradation on
                      drylands
                      Installmonitoring and
Species               prediction systems, to
Management Systems facilitateltarget
                      management controls,
                      policies on alien clearing
                      on contractual national
                      parks, pilot novel alien
                      clearing mechanisms
D.viiInvasive Alien   Pilodadapt new                       The Project: field scale testing
Species               management measures to               inDoring, Goukamma
Bio-control           control alien invasive
Integrated Pest       species, where know how              TMF: experiment techniques
Management            is lacking, and threats are          inCederberg
Invasive Alien Fish   siwificant
                        Y
D.viii Invasive Alien Systematize public
Species               awareness activities,
Education/            promotional materials
Awareness

utilizationofwild
resources

E.iWild Fynbos        Determine sustainable
                      offtakes, management
                      planning, certification,
                      market efficiencies
E.ii Coastal/ Marine  Co-management
Resources             arrangements, Pilot/ adapt
                      spatial
                      Management tools
                      Promotion




                                                  -102-

.iv                    Small grants for capacity                        K
ommunity-Based         building, advocacy,
atural Resource        education, pilot
Ianagement             managementactivities,
                       legal support
.Ancillary
ianagement
Ztivities

.iSpecies              Planning, research,                                       2EPF will fundthe
Ianagement             demonstration, stock                                      rhreatened Plant Species
:hthyofauna            assessment                                       X        Program
                                                                                 TMFwill fund
                                                                                 implementationo f
                                                                                 management plans for
                                                                                 threatenedbirds (Le. Black
                                                                                 Oyster catcher) and stock
                                                                                 assessments for marine fish in
                                                                                 Table Mountain National
                                                                                 Park
_______~
.iiOffshoreMarine      Researchingenvironmental
lanagement             variability inBenguela
                       Ecosystem, early waming
                       for redtideslanoxia




   The -was       initially establishedwith domestic contributions of US$2 million to support the conservation
   of Table Mountain. The GEF provided funding (US$5 million) to broadenthe mandate of the Fundto
   support small-medium scale community-based conservation actions throughout the CFR. To date, it has
   funded or is funding over 40 projects. The TMF has establisheda reputation as a model Trust Fund,
   having developedsignificant project management capabilities.

   The Cape 2000 Stratem has providedthe framework for more systematically coordinating the activities of
   government andnon-government agencieswithin the conservation arena. Further, at a site level, a
   fine-scale conservationmapping exercise was completed inthe Agulhas Plain- one o f the most important


                                                     - 103-

refugia for lowland Cape fjmbos vegetation globally.

The Cape PeninsulaBiodiversity ConservationProject inessence constituteda pre-feasibility phaseand
substantial investment for a broader initiative to protect the entire CFR. The project has met key
performance benchmarks. This success, attributed in large part to strong government commitment and
stakeholder support, provides a strong assurance that fiuther conservation measures intended to realize the
CAPE 2000 vision have a highprobability of success, both interms ofmitigating threats and engineering
sustainability. These fimdamentals provide the conditions necessary for Mher GEF support, as part of a
larger package, to secure biodiversity conservationobjectives within the CFR.




                                                     - 104-

                              Additional Annex 15: Replication Strategy
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project

 The CAPE project was developedinresponse to a detailedassessmentof threats, gaps and lessons that
 have emergedsince the development of the original CAPE strategy in2000. These aspectsthat informed
 the project are set out inthis Project document.

 The whole project is focused on developing replicable models, with actual replication primarily taking place
 inPhase2. Severalactivities will beundertakento ensurethat lessonsthat emergeduringandfromthe
 project are captured and shared with relevant stakeholders.These stakeholderswill include local, national
 and international parties.

 The Project will develop tool kits and sponsor other measuresto promote the replication o fbest practices.
 These will include:
      1. A CAPE M&Esystem that will be set up to monitor impacts, including aspects relating to
     sustainability of the project, and outputs interms o f efficiency and effectiveness.
     2. Various forums and task teams that will be/ have already beenestablishedto linkup related
     aspects o f the project. These include the CAPE ProtectedAreas Forum, and 15 task teams that will be
     responsiblefor integratedproject implementation and iterative planning.
     3. The CAPE PartnersConference, which will be heldevery two years, starting in June 2004.
     4. Hostingof international delegations wishingto learn from the project.
     5. Presentationo f emerging lessons at local andinternational meetings.
     6. Publicationo f findings, lessons and emerging trends usingappropriatemedia, including relevant
     journals and publications and the CAPE website which is inthe processo f beingupdatedto facilitate
     this function (among other things).

 The pilots that will be implementedinPhase 1 of the project have beendesignedto test different
 approachesto biodiversity conservation across a range of issues, executing agenciesand local
 socio-economic conditions. Guidance will not be prescriptive inthat it will stress the need for adaptation to
 suit different social, economic and institutional contexts.

 The detailed project replication strategy will be basedon lessons that emerge from the first phaseo f the
 project. Budgetary provisionhas beenmade for the derivation o f lessons learned to be translated into
 guidance for replicationduringPhase 1under Component 1:Institutional strengthening, and under
 Component 3: Program Co-ordination, Management and Monitoring. Inaddition, CEPF resourcesare
 beingapplied ina complementary way for capacity-building andfor knowledge dissemination. A primary
 vehicle for knowledge sharingand dissemination is the Fynbos Forum, which the program will co-finance.
 Inparticular, agencyco-financing will be increasingly aligned withreplicating lessons learnt inother
 project sites, basedon the forums constituted by the various implementation task teams.




                                                     - 105  -

                 Strategy               Anticipated Resultsand impacts       Anticipated Replicationstrategy/
                                                                                           roil out
       InstitutionalStrengthening
1   Triggered by the emergence of      Zlarified institutional mandates for The results of Phase 1pilots will have
    new legislation, this component    3iodiversity conservation,improved   .elevantfor the clarificationof legal
    o f the project will focus on the  ?erformancemanagementand a           nandatesofconservationagencies
    resolution of legal mandates and   ?rotocolfor performance              icross the CFR as well as nationally.
    institutional roles for            managementacross agencies, the       rhiswill be especiallytrue for
    conservationagencies acrossthe     incorporationofbiodiversity          igencies inthe Western and Eastern
    CFR, and the requirementsof        ?riorities into managementactions    :ape Provinces, that will form the
   suchagencies to meet their          3 f catchment management agencies    'ocus of the study.
    agreedmandates. It will also       mda mechanismsfor rolling out        The protocols for performance
    pioneer the developmentof a        :his approachthroughout the CFR.     nanagementthat emerge during
    performancemanagement                                                   ?hase 1 will be replicable across other
    system across executing                                                 :co-regional programs in South
    agencies to assess their                                                4frica and internationally.
    alignment and compliance with                                           4pproaches to incorporating
    the CAPE 2000 strategy.                                                 Diodiversity concerns into CMAs that
    Mechanisms for incorporating                                            Ire piloted in Phase 1 of the project
    biodiversity concerns into                                              will be replicable across CMAs
    managementactions of 5 new                                              throughout South Africa.
    catchmentmanagement
-   agencies will also be piloted.
2   A capacity building program        [mproved capacity for biodiversity   Lessons and approaches that emerge
    will be developedand               management across the CFR, and       from this component of the project
    implementedto respondto            approaches to capacity building that will have relevanceto other
    needs across the CFR. This         are able to respondto the diverse    bioregional programs, and well as
    program will complement the        range of capacity building needs     other sectors that face similar
    current CEPF Capacity Building     across the CFR.                      challenges regarding capacity
    Programandthe opportunities                                             development. The various SETAs will
    that are currently offered by                                           alsobenefits from outcomesof this
    current capacity building                                               project.
    initiatives and the SETAs. It is
    anticipated that the program
    will look at the placement of
    relevant staff at tertiary
    institutions, skill development in
    staff who are responsible for
    biodiversity managementand
    mechanismsto attract new
    entrants into conservation
-   management.
.3  The financial needs of             Protocols for achieving 'financial   These protocols will be relevantto a
    implementing agencies for all      sustainability inpilot sites.        suite ofprotected areas and projects
    conservationmanagement                                                  across the CFR.
    activities will be assessed, and
    strategies will be developedfor
    financial sustainability
.4  The CAPE information               A relevant and responsive            Protocols and lessonsemerging from
    managementunit has already         informationmanagementsystem          this project will haverelevanceto
    been establishedas part of a       that is able to collect and collate  approaches to biodiversity


                                                  - 106-

    CEPF pilot project and GEF        data as it emerges, and to serve it,     nformation managementacrossthe
    support will allow further        inthe form of useful products, to        ZFR, nationally and internationally.
    piloting o f innovative           users across the CFR.                    Zepresentatives of national
    approachesthat are being tested                                            nformation managementagencies
    by this unit. These include the                                            lave been invited to participate inthe
    design and managementof                                                    ask team that will steer this project to
    information to inform                                                      'acilitate this knowledge transfer.
    biodiversity conservationacross
    the CFR. Informationincludes
    spatial data, as well as relevant
    qualitative information.
    :onservationEducation
    A co-ordinated conservation       Raisedawarenessof biodiversity           The approaches to conservation
    educationprogram will be          issues andbenefits in the CFR.           :ducation that are developed,as well
    developedat severalpilot sites    Tools that canbe usedby educators        3s the generic material that emerge,
    across the CFR. The program       inthe pilot sites for conservation       will be replicated across the CFR in
    will include the development      education amonglocal learners, as        Phase 2 of the project. The
    and dissemination of site-based   well as generic materials that can       approachesand protocols that emerge
    materials that focus on           be adaptedfor hrther sites,              will have relevancefor other
    biodiversity education, and that  includingprotected area education        ecoregionalprograms, both locally
    are developedby educators at      centers and schoolsacross the CFR.       and internationally.
    pilots sites, as well as support
    for teachers and educatorsto use
    materials that are developed.
    Project co-ordination,
    management and monitoring
.1  Severalimplementers will be       Improved project managementand           Approaches to project management
    involved in the roll out of the   protocols for the managementof the and development, knowledge and
    project and, given the            CAPE project will be established.        information sharing and the M&E
    participatory approachthat        istateoftheartM&Esystemwillbe systemthatisdevelopedwillbe
    underpinsthe project, it will be  levelopedthat is able to track           replicable across other
    important to ensure that          mplementation across the landscape. multi-stakeholder projects with
    opportunities for participation   :he M&Esystemwill monitor                similar properties.
    are created, and that lessons     irocessesunderpinning results, takin1
    emerging acrossthe landscape      'are to define the determinants of
    are shared.                       iroject performance.
    The CCU has been established      icommunicationstrategy,that
    at the PMU that will oversee      acilitates participation and
    project development,              mowledgetransfer across the CFR
    co-ordination, management and     vill also be tested. This will result in
    monitoring. It will also be       ncreasedparticipation by
    responsiblefor communication      takeholdersacrossthe CFR inthe
    betweenpartnersand the            woject, and improvedsharing of
    dissemination of findings and     nnovations and lessons.
    lessons that emerge as the
    program is implemented.
    Unleashingthe potential of
    protectedareas
    Establishment and consolidation    Improvedmanagement and three            Lessonsthat emerge from these pilots
    of the Cederberg, Baviaanskloof   replicable strategies, applicable to     will be applicable to other protected
    and GardenRoute Mega               mega-reserveestablishment,              areas within the CFR, including
    Reserves, and Kogelberg            consolidation and sustainability.       World Heritage Sites. They will also
    BiosphereReserve.                 These strategieswill pilot different     be relevant to protected areas in other


                                                 - 107  -

These pilot areas were selected   approaches to land consolidation,      National and Intemational
becausethey representareas        stakeholderinvolvement and             :coregions.
with different socio-economic     mechanisms for financial               Emerging lessonswill be shared with
environments, development         sustainability.                        local PA implementers through a
pressures, and institutional                                             ProtectedAreas Forum, that will meet
arrangements.                                                            quarterly with purpose of deepening
                                                                         approachesto PA establishment and
                                                                         consolidation.
Establishment and consolidation   Replicablestrategies for both new      Lessonsthat emerge from these pilots
of the GardenRoute and            (as inthe case of Kogelberg) and       will be applicable to other marine
Kogelberg Marine Protected        existing MPAs that consider            protectedareas within the CFR, as
Areas.                            sustainablemanagementof these          well as to marine protected areas in
These projects will test the      important marine areas.                other National and Intemational
implementation and                Co-managementarrangements              ecoregions.
management of MPAs by             betweenMCM and WCNCB will be
WCNCB, who will be mandated       tested, as will approachedto
by MCM to take on this            involving BiosphereReserve
responsibility. The Kogelberg     ManagementStructuresin MPA
MPA sits adjacentto a             establishmentand management.
BiosphereReserve, and
co-managementof the area with
the BiosphereReserve Company
will also be tested. Lessonsthat
emerge from the current MPA
establishmentprocess of the
Table MountainNational Park
will be incorporatedin project
design.
Two Freshwaterand Estuarine       Protocols for the establishmentof      Lessons and models that emerge from
ProtectedAreas will be            freshwater and estuarine protected     these pilots will be applicable to other
establishedin the CFR. This       areas in terms of new South African    important freshwater areas and
will be the first time that       legislation, improvedmanagement        estuaries across the CFR, as well as
protectedareas that focus on      of the target pilot sites and piloting nationally.
freshwater or estuary             of co-managementof these areas.
conservationare formally
establishedin South Africa. The
exact locationsof these
protectedareas will be
determined as a result of further
investigations that will take
place during the first few
months of the project.
BiodiversityEconomy and
ConservationStewardship
Five fine scale conservation      Protocols for the developmentof        The implementation ofbiodiversity
plans will be developedto         fine scale conservation plans that     conservationhas to be informedby
inform biodiversity planning in   respondto the needs of                 conservation planning. One of the
targetedpriority areas, The       implementers, and are easily           constraints that i s experienced is that
approaches that are taken will    developedand updated.Novel             conservation plans are expensive,
be informed by lessonsthat are    approaches will be tested ineach of    time consuming and very often are
emerging from a key pilot study   the areas.                             outdated and do not respondto the
that developeda fine scale                                               needs of the implementers.It i s
conservationplan for the                                                 anticipated that the fine scale


                                             -108  -

   Swartland and Overberg areas of                                      :onservation planning protocols that
   the CFR. As new lessons                                              :merge after the 5 year program will
   emerge, they will be shared                                          illow the roll out of cost effective and
   acrossthese ecoregions and                                           -elevantConservationplans that are
   across the CFR. A conservation                                       :asily updatedacrossthe eco-region.
   planning task team has been                                          Strategiesthat emerge will be
   establishedto facilitate this                                        -eplicableacross the CFR, as well as
   process. Lessons from the CFR                                        lationally and internationally.
   pilots are already being applied
   inother eco-regional programs
   in SouthAfrica, including the
   SucculentKaroo and
-  Sub-tropical Thicket programs.
2  The outputs of the fine scale    lmproved decision making            Lessonsthat emerge inthe pilots
   plans will be integrated into 6  regardingtransformation of virgin    wsociatedwith this aspect ofthe
   district municipalities. In      lands and conservationof            projectwill be replicable across the
   addition, municipalities will be biodiversity.                       CFR inother district municipalities,
   supportedto improve their        Protocolsfor the uptake of           3swell as at a finer scale in local
   information management and       biodiversity information into local municipalities across the region.
   decision making processesas      authority planning processes,       Approaches will also have relevance
   these relateto biodiversity      including IDPs and SDFs.            to other municipalities across South
   conservation.                                                        Africa.
3  A program looking at how         Protocols for rolling out           Tools and protocols will be rolledout
   landownerscan be supported to    conservationstewardship across the   across the 8 priority protectedareas of
   participate in conservation      CFR, including tools for a rangeof  the CFR, as well as in World Heritage
   stewardshipwill be rolled out in areas with varying socio-economic    Sites and other conservationworthy
   5 priority areas and three       conditions.                          areas.
   mega-reserve areas acrossthe
   CFR. Approaches that are
   adoptedwill be drawn from a
   CEPF pilot project that is
   currently underway inthe
   Swartland and Overberg
   Lowlands, and lessonsthat are
   emerging from this project are
   already being communicatedto
   both conservationand
   agricultural extension staff in
   Protectedand Priority Areas
-  acrossthe CFR.
4  Protocols for implementing       Improved understandingof             Results of this study will be testedin
   economic incentives that trigger economic incentives that trigger     Phase2 of the study, and will be
   improved land stewardshipwill    land stewardship and protocols for   relevant to other initiatives, both
   be developed.These will inform   implementing appropriate economic    locally and internationally, that seek
   the roll out of stewardship      incentives.                          to trigger land stewardshipthat,
   programs across the CFR.                                              supports conservation in landscapes
                                                                         with competing land uses.
   Watershed management
1  Ecological reserve               Improved incorporation of            The protocols and methods that
   determination is a requirement   biodiversity concernsinto            emerge during Phase 1of the project
   of SouthAfrica's National        ecological reserve determination,    will be applied to other sites in the
   Water Act, and this component    fire managementand water demand      CFR during Phase 2 of the project.
   will look at improving the       management, as well as protocols


                                              - 109-

effectiveness o f this with regard and methods for achieving this.
to the requirements o f
biodiversity. Inaddition, the
program will seek to incorporate
biodiversity concems into the
new fire management system
and water conservation/ demand
management programs,
The creation o f an invasive alien An integrated strategy for the       The approaches to managing
strategy and business plan for     management and control o f           particular species o f alien invasive
the entire CFR, as well as the     invasive alien species across the    species that are tested inPhase 1 o f
establishment o f centers o f      CFR, as well as specific tools and   the project will be replicated at other
excellence to support the          protocols for the management o f     sites across the CFR duringphase 2 of
prevention and management o f      particular species.                 the study.
alien invasive species.
The design and testing o f an      G p r o G d estuarine management at  The protocol will be rolled out in
estuarine management program       several pilot sites across the CFR.  other priority estuaries across the
at several pilot sites across the  A tested and refined protocol for    CFR inPhase 2 o f the project. It will
CFR. A protocol will be            estuarine management.                also be relevant for other priority
developed inyear 1 o f the                                              estuaries, both nationally and
project, and implementedand                                             internationally.
monitored during the remainder
of phase 1.




                                              - 110-

 Additional Annex 16: Role of Each Agency per Component and Procurement Category
SOUTH AFRICA C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservationand Sustainable Development Project




  Operational                        0.630       0.000      0.088      0.098       0.444

                                          -111-

 Workshops                           0.115      0.000    0.034    0.070    0.010
Total                                4.120      0.000    I.327    1.694    1.099


5. Establishing the foundations of   2.450      1.130    0.000    1.320    0.000
the biodiversity economy to
enhance conservation stewardship

Wnrks                                0.000      0.000 I  0.000    0.000    0.000
 Capital (goods)                     0.063      0.049    0.000    0.014    0.000
 Personnel (staff)                   1.510      0.716    0.000    0.795    0.000
 Operational                         0.476      0.122    0.000    0.354    0.000
 Workshops                           0.401      0.243    0.000    0.157    0.000
Tntal                                2.450      1.I30    0.000    1.320    0.000


6. Integrating biodiversity          1.320      0.906    0.000    0.414    0.000
concerns into watershed
management
Works                                0.058      0.000    0.000    0.058    0.000
 Capital (goods)                     0.000      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
 Personnel (staff)                   1.205      0.906    0.000    0.299    0.000
 Operational                         0.057      0.000    0.000    0.057    0.000
 Workshops                           0.000      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
Total                                1.320      0.906    0.000    0.414    0.000




                                          -112-

