C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003             1   87
December 2003
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
AND PROCESS FRAMEWORK FOR C.A.P.E.
~~N 
DECEMBER 4th 2003
World Bank Project ID: GE-P052368
UNDP Project ID: SAF/02/G42/1 G/03
Country: Republic of South Africa
Project Title: C.A.P.E. Biodiversity and Sustainable Development Project
GEF Agency: World Bank (Lead), UNDP
Other Executing Agency/Agencies: National Botanical Institute of South Africa
Prepared for the C.A.P.E Program
With contributions by LaIa Steyn and Aninka Claassens
IC A  N  I (C A  I



C.A.P.E. RPF December 2003
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
AND PROCESS FRAMEWORK FOR C.A.P.E.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..................i
I PROJECT DESCRIPTION                             .1
1.1 Introduction .1
1.2    Institutional Arrangements                    .2
1.3     Program Development Objectives and Components          .3
2   WORLD BANK INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT/LOSS OF ACCESS POLICY          .    5
2.1     World Bank Involuntary resettlement/Loss of Access Policy Requirements  . 5
2.2     South Africa laws and policies affecting resettlement and rights of access to
natural resources .............                                            11
3   C.A.P.E. Program activities that could trigger safeguard OP4.12 .17
3.1     Social and economic context .17
3.2    Identified interventions that could have impacts .18
4   The RPF and PF processes that will apply to the C.A.P.E. Program .35
4.1     Why RAPs and Plans of Action cannot be prepared now .35
4.2 RPF .35
4.3 RAP preparation .41
4.4 Process Framework .45
5   Implementation arrangements for RPF and PF .49
5.1     Grievance redress mechanisms .49
5.2     Organisational elements, institutional capacity and commitments .51
5.3     Monitoring, evaluation and reporting .52
5.4 Funding arrangements .54
5.5     Public consultation and disclosure to date .56
5.6    Implementation of the RPF and PF .57
6 REFERENCES.                                                              59
ANNEX A: C.A.P.E. RPF AND PF SUMMARY
ANNEX B: MAPS ILLUSTRATING THE AREAS ASSOCIATED WITH PROPOSED C.A.P.E. ACTIVITIES
ANNEX C: BIODIVERSITY VALUE OF THE AREA



C.A.P.E. RPF December 2003
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
C.A.P.E. is a large-scale biodiversity conservation Program for the Cape Floral Kingdom, whose
implementation is to be supported by the Global Environment Facility. A significant portion of this
support will be administered through the World Bank, and therefore World Bank safeguard policies
and procedures will apply to the Program. This report addresses implementation of the Bank's
Involuntary Resettlement Operational Policy (known as OP4.12), which safeguards against the
impoverishment risks of involuntary resettlement/loss of access in development projects. It defines
involuntary resettlement as follows:
"Any project which displaces people from land or productive resources, and which results in
relocation, the loss of shelter, the loss of assets or access to assets important to production,
the loss of income sources or means of livelihoods, or the loss of access to locations that
provide higher incomes or lower expenditure to businesses or persons, whether or not the
affected people must move to another location1."
The policy objectives of OP4.12 are as follows:
*    Avoid involuntary resettlement/loss of access where feasible (viable alternatives should be
explored in this regard);
*    Ensure that, where it is unavoidable, involuntary resettlement/loss of access occurs as part of
a sustainable development program that provides investment resources to those who are
affected;
*    Ensure that those who are affected are meaningfully consulted and have opportunities to plan
and implement their resettlement; and,
*    Ensure that those affected are assisted to at least restore their livelihoods/standards to the
same levels as at the time of displacement.
There are four main instruments that are set out in OP4.12. These are a (1) Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), which is followed by a (2) Resettlement Action Plan (RAP); and (3) Process
Framework (PF), followed by a (4) Plan of Action (POA). The RPF and PF must be prepared for the
Bank before an investment that could result in involuntary resettlement/loss of access can be
approved. A RAP and POA are required where specific activities that may result in involuntary
resettlement/loss of access are proposed.
The C.A.P.E. Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) sets out a process for
screening proposed C.A.P.E. activities in order to determine whether World Bank safeguard
policies, including the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard, OP4.12, will be triggered. The
C.A.P.E. Program has seven components. Of these, it has been concluded at this stage that only
Component 5 has the potential to trigger OP4.12. This component includes the expansion and
Quoted from Terms of Reference for a Resettlement Policy Framework and see point 3 of OP4.12
iii



C.A.P.E. RPF December 2003
consolidation of protected areas. However, it is possible that other C.A.P.E. activities could be
found to trigger OP4.12 as the C.A.P.E. Program develops.
It is not possible to determine the possible extent or zone of impact of the various sub-projects or
sub-components at this stage because C.A.P.E. is in an early planning stage. In consequence,
and in terms of paragraph 26 of OP4.12, the World Bank has indicated that an RPF will suffice, and
that RAPs and POAs are not needed at this stage of the Program.
This document sets out a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) for the C.A.P.E Program, and
Process Framework (PF), in accordance with World Bank Safeguard OP4.12. Preparing both RPF
and PF at once and combining the two into one document provides guidance for the implementation
of the C.A.P.E. program, as it provides both a policy framework and procedural safeguards, binding
diverse executing agencies and ensuring compliance with OP4.12. This will take place in the
context of in-country capacity, backed up by supporting laws and regulations. This document
therefore sets out:
*   An explanation of the World Bank Involuntary Resettlement Policy OP4.12;
*   An overview of South African legislation relating to OP4.12;
*   An account of the C.A.P.E. activities that could result in OP4.12 being triggered;
*   The categories of people who may qualify for compensation, if affected by involuntary
resettlement/loss of access resulting from activities associated with the C.A.P.E. Program;
*   A summary of the proposed C.A.P.E. RPF and associated RAPs, and PF and associated
Plans of Action (POAs) that will be prepared by relevant Executing Agencies; and
*   A description of the implementation and institutional arrangements applicable to the RPF and
PF.
The RPF is premised on the following principles:
*    Avoid or minimise triggering this safeguard;
*    Comply with both letter and spirit of the law;
*    Ensure genuine consultation and participation take place;
*    Undertake baseline socio-economic survey/s and integrate RAPS into existing planning
processes;
*    Apply the RPF to all contractual arrangements that could have social impacts;
*    Develop resettlement options that place affected people in at least an equivalent, but
preferably better situation than they were in prior to involuntary resettlement/loss of access;
*    Develop options in conjunction with the affected households and then allow them to choose
between options. Empower affected people to actively participate in both the development of
options and negotiations around their choice;
*    Uphold principles of fairness and reasonableness;
*    Determine budgets as an upfront project cost; and
*    Cater for vulnerable populations.
iv



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
1  PROJECT DESCRIPTION2
1.1 Introduction
The C.A.P.E. Program is a large-scale, multi-stakeholder, multi-faceted 20-year Program that seeks
to conserve biodiversity in the Cape Floral Region, while at the same time delivering economic
benefits.
The Cape Floristic Region (CFR) covers 90 000 square kilometres, comprises one of the six floral
kingdoms worldwide and is exceptionally rich in species diversity, being listed as a centre of plant
diversity and endemism. This rich biodiversity is under serious threat due to conversion of natural
habitat to permanent agriculture and rangelands, inappropriate fire management, rapid and
insensitive infrastructural development, over-exploitation of marine resources and wild flowers and
infestation by alien species. See Annex D.
The basis for the C.A.P.E. Program intervention was laid by GEF support in September 2000 that
resulted in the C.A.P.E. 2000 Strategy. It identified the key ecological patterns and processes
which need to be conserved in the CFR, and the key threats and root causes of biodiversity
losses that need to be addressed in order to conserve the biodiversity of the CFR. This resulted in
a spatial plan identifying the areas that need to be conserved and a series of broad Program
activities that need to be undertaken over a 20-year period.
Implementation over the next 20 years is divided into three phases:
*    Phase 1 (6 years) involves a Global Environmental Facility (GEF) Grant of $1 1 m, with
Executing Agencies and other donor funding contributing $74.5 million. This phase will result
in gains in expanding the area under conservation by 4 800 square kilometres, removing
barriers causing biodiversity loss and laying the basis for the "conservation economy".
*    Phase 2 (6 years) will be characterised by significant expansion of capacity to conserve the
CFR with most key areas secured under conservation management and bring an additional
7 600 square kilometres into the conservation estate.
*    Phase 3 (8 years) - by this time markets are expected to play a key role in conserving and
even restoring the ecological capital of the CFR with a further 7 600 square kilometres
added under conservation management.



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
The expected cost of the C.A.P.E. Program over these 20 years is given in the table below:
Table 1: Cost of the C.A.P.E. Program
Phase             Domestic sources  GEF,  CEPF   and Total
Agulhas Plain
Phase 1           $44               $15.5             $59.5
Phase 2           $55               $10               $65
Phase 3           $70               $0                $70
Total             $169              $25.5             $194.5
The C.A.P.E. Program is in an exponential growth phase. The scope, scale and ambitions of the
Program are huge.
1.2 Institutional Arrangements
The institutional framework for the implementation of the C.A.P.E. Program and the broad
relationship between various institutions are specifically mentioned because they are one of the key
innovations of the Program. These arrangements are relevant to the RPF and PF because several
institutions will need to commit themselves to the implementation of these frameworks.
The role of the C.A.P.E. Program is to work in partnership with existing well-established institutions
whose mandates affect environment and/or conservation to develop a co-ordinated and co-
operative approach to implementation.
It is well documented in South Africa that one of the key reasons for the failure of government to
attain its developmental and poverty alleviation objectives is the fragmented and competitive nature
of state institutions who answer to their narrow output requirements as opposed to working
collectively to achieve outcomes.
The C.A.P.E. Program's institutional arrangements are a first in South Africa, and require skilled
management because they are complex and lack the traditional lines of management and
accountability that most South African institutions are familiar with. Implementation is also taking
place in a context, where established institutions face organisational transformation and a high level
of involvement by politicians.
Two Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) set out the institutional arrangements of the C.A.P.E.
Program. The principal MOU, signed in September 2001, is between the National Ministries of
Environment and Tourism, and of Water Affairs and Forestry, and Members of the Executive
Councils of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape responsible for Environmental Affairs creating a
mechanism through which the C.A.P.E. strategy is to be implemented. The parties agree that a
coordinated approach is desirable and establishes the C.A.P.E. Coordination Committee (CCC)
with the overall function of coordinating the long-term implementation of the C.A.P.E. strategy.
2



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Decision-making is by consensus unless this is not possible, in which case a majority of votes
carries the day.
The principal MOU also establishes the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (CIC) to represent
government departments, municipalities, statutory bodies and accredited NGOs that will implement
the Program. It says that the members of the CIC will enter into a MOU for the implementation of
the C.A.P.E. Strategy. This is the second MOU which has the same title as the first but which was
signed by 16 institutions in September 2001. Its says that the function of the CIC is to coordinate
the long term implementation of the C.A.P.E. strategy by the principal implementing agencies and to
advance and represent the common interests of the Parties concerning management of the CFK.
The CIC has an Executive Committee to attend to business between meetings and to provide
guidance to the C.A.P.E. Coordination Unit (CCU) on a day-to-day basis.
The Government of South Africa has appointed the National Botanical Institute (NBI) as the
Program manager for the C.A.P.E. Program, and for the GEF investment. South African National
Parks (SANParks), provincial conservation agencies and larger local authorities in conjunction with
the private sector will mainly execute the protected areas component 5 of the Program.
1.3 Program Development Objectives and Components
The overall goal of the C.A.P.E. Program is that the natural environment of the CFR and adjacent
marine environment will be effectively conserved, restored wherever appropriate and will deliver
significant benefits to the people in a way that is embraced by local communities, endorsed by
government and recognized internationally.
The C.A.P.E. Program has two Program Development Objectives:
*    Program Development Objective 1: Capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation
for mainstreaming biodiversity in the Cape Floristic Region into economic activities3.
*    Program Development Objective 2: Conservation of the Cape Floristic Region is enhanced
through piloting and adapting site-based models for sustainable, effective management.
The above objectives are broken down into 7 components, the first 4 relating to objective 1 and
the remaining 3 relating to objective 2.
3 Mainstreaming in this context concerns the integration of biodiversity concerns into relevant sectoral or cross-sectoral
plans, Programs and policies, resulting in situations where there is a simultaneous achievement of gains in biodiversity
and gains in an economic sector (the "win-win" scenario) (Pierce, et al., 2002).
3



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Table 2: Components of the C.A.P.E. Program
Component                  Outcome
Enhanced strategic alignment of conservation activities and increased capacity
1.  Institutional  strengtheningof relevant institutions for integrated bioregional conservation management in
($1.2m)                    he CFR supported by comprehensive performance management and
information management
Increased environmental awareness and committed action of people in the CFR
contributes to biodiversity conservation
3. Establishing the foundations o Market-based mechanisms for conservation management are designed and
the biodiversity economy   micro enterprise opportunities for conservation related businesses established
4.   Program    co-ordination Enhanced management capacity, effective communication and efficient
n  oorina  adaptive management result in the integrated development and implementation
management and monitoring  oftePgrmaawhl
of the Program as a whole
Protected areas contributing to priority targets for conservation of the
5. Unleashing the potential o biodiversity of the CFR are consolidated or established; cost-effective
protected areas            management is sustained; tourism development plans are implemented; and
stakeholders derive direct and indirect benefits
6.  Identifying  and  securingBiodiversity in five to six priority remnant patches in fragmented landscapes
biodiversity in key sites  identified and secured in conjunction with civil society
7.   Integrating  biodiversity
concerns    into  watershed Biodiversity concerns are integrated into 5 watershed management agencies
management
4



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
2 WORLD BANK INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT/LOSS OF ACCESS POLICY
2.1 World Bank Involuntary resettlementVLoss of Access Policy Requirements
The World Bank has an Operational Policy (known as OP4.12) to safeguard against the
impoverishment risks of involuntary resettlement/loss of access in development projects. A
summary of this policy and its requirements is given below.
2.1.1 Definition of involuntary resettlement/loss of access
The World Bank definition of involuntary resettlement/loss of access is:
"Involuntary resettlement refers to any project which displaces people from land or productive
resources, and which results in relocation, the loss of shelter, the loss of assets or access to
assets important to production, the loss of income sources or means of livelihoods, or the
loss of access to locations that provide higher incomes or lower expenditure to businesses or
persons, whether or not the affected people must move to another location4."
Involuntary vs. voluntary resettlement
"Involuntary" means actions that may be taken without the displaced person's informed consent or
power of choice. Resettlement is only voluntary when the affected people have the option to refuse
resettlement, and they nevertheless resettle based on informed consent. This free choice needs to
be determined by a process of independent verification, and when it can't be confirmed,
resettlement would be treated as involuntary5.
It has been argued that any resettlement that might occur in the C.A.P.E. Program is voluntary
because any displacement from land or productive resources will NOT result in relocation, loss of
shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood or loss of
access to locations that provide higher incomes because in all cases the aim of the project is to
benefit people. Real examples on the ground of situations where jobs have increased in number
and quality as a result of land conversion to conservation are given to show that the C.A.P.E.
Program is about creating benefits and not involuntary resettlement/loss of access. Implicitly the
issue being raised is whether this policy applies at all to the C.A.P.E. Program.
OP4.12 is one of the Bank's safeguard policies because their experience has shown that
involuntary resettlement/loss of access under development projects, if unmitigated, often lead to
severe economic, social and environmental risks. Clearly it is not possible, until the specifics of a
case have been investigated (the zone and nature of impact determined, the socio-economic data
collected, viable options developed, people consulted and consent obtained etc), to know exactly
what the impact of displacement from land or productive resources will be, positive or negative. As
4 Quoted from Terms of Reference for a Resettlement Policy Framework and see point 3 of OP4.12
5OP4.12 footnote 7 and Bank document on FAQ dated May 2002
5



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
the zone of impact and associated details such as the estimated population that may be affected, is
presently unknown in most of the C.A.P.E. Program, it would be premature to conclude whether any
displacement of people from land or productive resources will be involuntary or voluntary. All
activities that trigger the OP4.12 safeguard need to either a) provide proof of independent
verification that the resettlement is voluntary, or b) follow the procedures set out in Figure 2.
This document does not question the C.A.P.E. Programs' explicit intention to benefit people, but
builds on this by providing a policy framework and mechanisms to ensure that involuntary
resettlement/loss of access either doesn't occur or if it does occur, is mitigated. Thus if
displacement actually improves the lives of the affected people who have been involved in the
process and provided informed consent, this is the first prize. In such cases it can be argued that
the resettlement is not "involuntary" but "voluntary". This does not really matter, because this
safeguard and C.A.P.E. objectives would have been met.
2.1.2 Who the resettlement policy covers
The policy covers all person losing assets, use of resources, or access to resources as a direct
result of the project. The policy is not restricted to people who have formal legal rights to the land or
resources. It applies to people who currently occupy or use the land or natural resources, no matter
whether they have formal rights to do so, and it includes people with valid claims to the resources.6
It thus includes landowners (who are in any case required by South African law to be provided with
market-based compensation and are thus not the focus on this RPF), farm workers and occupiers
(who also have certain rights in terms of the Extension of Security of Tenure Act), people with
communal/traditional rights such as residents in the former "coloured reserves" and on mission
land, restitution claimants and people with established occupation and use rights in term of the
Interim Protection of Informal Rights to Land Act, as well as "those who have no recognizable legal
right or claim to the land they are occupying" 7. This later group will only be provided with
resettlement assistance and not compensation for the land they occupy.
It does NOT include persons opportunistically invading a site after disclosure of the project (In
South African law the Prevention of Illegal and Unlawful Occupation Act provides for the eviction of
such people). It also would not protect criminal activity8 such as the poaching experienced in some
of the marine areas9.
6OP4.12, Para 15
7 OP4.12, Para 15
8 The distinction between unlawful and criminal should be understood. Established patterns of occupation
and use that are not necessarily lawful would fall within the scope of the safeguard. However the safeguard
includes a test of reasonableness, and it cannot reasonably be expected to protect criminal activities. Where
the distinction is relevant in a particular project the RAPs and POA should include a discussion of the
circumstances, and explain why certain users have been treated differently.
9World Bank, Involuntary Resettlement, Key Concepts, as applied to C.A.P.E.
6



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
In addition, the policy states that particular attention should be paid to the needs of vulnerable
groups among those displaced - especially those below the poverty line; the landless, the elderly,
women and children, indigenous groups and ethnic minorities or other displaced persons who may
not be protected through South African law.
The Bank safeguard Policy OP 4.12 applies to all components under the project, whether or not the
Bank directly funds them in whole or in part.
2.1.3 Policy objectives of OP4.12
The policy objectives of OP4. 12 are as follows:
Avoid involuntary resettlement/loss of access where feasible (viable alternatives should be explored
in this regard);
1. Ensure that, where it is unavoidable, involuntary resettlement/loss of access occurs as part of a
sustainable development Program that provides investment resources to those who are
affected;
2. Ensure that those who are affected are meaningfully consulted and have opportunities to plan
and implement their resettlement; and,
3. Ensure that those affected are assisted to at least restore their livelihoods/standards to the
same levels as at the time of displacement.
Restoration of the incomes of all affected persons is one of the key objectives of the Bank's
resettlement policy. It requires that after resettlement, all of the affected persons should have
incomes, which are at least equivalent to their pre-project income levels.
Restoration of incomes, the standards of living and the productivity levels of the affected persons
constitute the core of the Bank's resettlement policy. Though resettlement programs should be
designed to help improve the standards of living and income levels of the affected population, they
must, at least, be restored to previous levels. Resettlement planning is one of the main mechanisms
through which the Bank and the Borrower work towards ensuring that the incomes of all categories
of affected persons are restored after resettlement.
2.1.4 Instruments - RPF, PF, RAP and POA
There are four main instruments that are set out in OP4.12. These are a (1) Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF), which is followed by a (2) Resettlement Action Plan (RAP); and (3) Process
Framework (PF), followed by a (4) Plan of Action (POA). The key intention of these instruments is to
provide a policy framework and binding procedural safeguards.
These instruments are described in Table 3.
7



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Table 3: Instruments set out in OP4.12
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and Process Framework (PF) and Plan of Action (POA)
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
RPFs                                          PFs
An RPF is required for Bank-assisted projects with A PF is prepared when Bank-supported projects may
multiple sub-projects  or for sector investment cause restrictions in access to natural resources in
operations that may involve involuntary taking of legally designated parks and protected areas. This
land resulting in:                            includes marine and terrestrial protected areas.
* Relocation or loss of shelter,
*  Loss of assets or access to assets, or  A PF sets out a process by which members of
*  Loss of income sources or means of potentially affected communities can participate in the
livelihood, whether or not the affected  design of project components and the determination of
persons must move to another location   measures to mitigate adverse impacts.
*  Loss of access to resources.
POAs
An RPF    is a statement of policy, principles, A POA is a detailed action plan that sets out how
institutional arrangements  and  procedures  that restrictions on access to resources will be treated,
Executing  Agencies   will  in   each   sub- including how affected people will be involved in the
project/component that could involve involuntary  process and how they will be compensated
resettlement/loss of access.
A Plan of Action (POA) must be submitted to, and
The RPF must be prepared, accepted and disclosed  approved by the Bank before the enforcement of
publicly before the Bank will appraise the project.  restrictions on access to protected areas.
RAPs                                          A POA must comply with the process set out in the PF.
Where an RPF is in place, a RAP is a detailed action
plan for treating a specific situation. It identifies the The key outcome of a POA is that those who are
precise impacts that may  be associated  with affected by restrictions on their access to resources
involuntary resettlement/loss of access and the  participate in determining the nature of the access
associated compensation.                      restrictions, and the process to mitigate any negative
impacts.
A RAP must be submitted to and approved by the
Bank before any involuntary resettlement/loss of Affected people will not necessarily be in an equivalent
access activities are carried out.            situation than prior to the intervention.
A RAP must comply with the policy, principles and  While efforts should be made to place the poor in at
procedures that are set out in the project or Program's least an  equivalent situation  than  prior to an
RPF. The key outcome of a RAP should be a situation  intervention, in terms of the Process Framework, this is
where affected people are in an equivalent situation  not an explicit requirement of OP4.12.
as before, but preferably in a better situation.
The RPF and PF are not site specific and can be prepared when it is not clear what the exact zone
of impact will be. The RAP and POA are site-specific tools and can only be prepared once the exact
zone of impact is known.
8



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
The RPF and PF must be prepared for the Bank before an investment that could result in
involuntary resettlement/loss of access can be approved. A RAP and POA are required where
specific activities that may result in involuntary resettlement/loss of access are proposed.
2.1.5 Contents of a RPF
In terms of OP4.12, a RPF should contain10:
a) A brief description of the project and components for which land acquisition and resettlement
are required, and an explanation of why a RAP cannot be prepared by project appraisal.
(See section 1 of this document for project description, section 4 for components for which
land acquisition and resettlement may be required, and section 5.2.2 for why a RAP cannot
be prepared now);
b) Principles and objectives (See section 5.2.2);
c) A description of the process for preparing and approving RAPs (See section 5.2.1);
d) Estimated population displacement and likely categories of displaced persons, to the extent
feasible (See section 4);
e) Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of displaced persons (See section 5.2.1);
f) A legal framework reviewing the fit between borrower laws and regulations and Bank policy
requirements and measures proposed to bridge any gaps between them (See sections 2 &
3);
g) Methods of valuing affected assets (See section 5.2.3);
h) Organisational procedures (See section 5.4.2);
i) A description of the implementation process (See sections 5.4 & 6);
j) A description of grievance redress mechanism (See section 5.4.1);
k) A description of the arrangements for funding resettlement (See section 5.4.4);
I) A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of, displaced persons
in planning, implementation, and monitoring (See section 5.2.3); and,
m) Arrangements for monitoring (See section 5.4.3).
2.1.6 Contents of a Process Framework
The World Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy differentiates between situations, which involve
the "involuntary taking of land"," and the "involuntary restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced
~1 2
persons"
Different, less onerous provisions are required for restrictions on access to protected areas, than
those required for situations involving the taking of land. Instead of an RPF, a Process Framework
is required initially. Just as specific Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) are required before the
implementation of any project entailing resettlement, so are Bank approved Plans of Action (POA)
required at the implementation stage of each project, before enforcing the envisaged restriction of
10 OP4.12 Annex A
1 Section 3(a) of OP4.12
12 Section 3(b) of OP4.12
9



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
access. These Plans of Action must set out the specific measures taken to assist people deprived
of access to parks or protected areas, and implementation arrangements. 13
The policy requires that the nature of the restrictions on access, as well as the type of measures
necessary to mitigate adverse impacts is determined, with the participation of the displaced persons
during the design and implementation of the project.14
The Process Framework must describe the participatory process whereby
a) Specific components of the project will be prepared and implemented
b) The criteria for eligibility of displaced persons will be determined
c) Measures to assist the displaced persons in their efforts to improve their livelihoods, or at
least to restore them, in real terms, while maintaining the sustainability of the park or
protected area, will be identified; and
d) Potential conflicts involving displaced people will be resolved.
e) It must also set out implementation and monitoring arrangements.
A process framework, and plans of action are required for processes that create new Protected
Areas.
They may also be required for projects and processes designed to more effectively enforce
restrictions in existing Protected Areas: It is a common problem that Protected Areas may have
been declared, but are not adequately policed or enforced. Where the Bank supports projects that
entail the enforcement of restrictions, it requires that its resettlement requirements be met to
mitigate the effects of restrictions on groups that qualify in terms of its criteria.
Preparing both RPF and PF at once and combining the two into one document provides guidance
for the implementation of the C.A.P.E. program, as it provides both a policy framework and
procedural safeguards, binding diverse executing agencies and ensuring compliance with OP4.12.
This will take place in the context of in-country capacity, backed up by supporting laws and
regulations.
13 Section 31 of OP 4.12
14 Section 7 of OP 4.12
10



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Legal framework - South African policy and law relating to resettlement
2.2 South Africa laws and policies affecting resettlement and rights of access to natural
resources
2.2.1 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa Act 108 of 1996
The property clause in section 25 of the constitution permits the regulation of property rights by law.
Where the regulation amounts to the expropriation of property, then compensation must be paid.
Whether any particular conservation regulation amounts to an expropriation of property (and
therefore would require compensation) is an issue that may be contested, and if so, would have to
be decided by the courts. Each instance would have to be decided on its merits, which will differ
according to the nature of the rights at issue, and the extent of the "loss" created by the law. Where
the holder of the property right agrees to the restriction on his or her rights, the matter can be
resolved amicably by agreement outside the court process. Property rights are not restricted to land
ownership, and various types of interests in land or natural resources, for example the occupation
rights of farm workers under ESTA (see below) are also property rights. The Expropriation Act 63 of
1975 is the law most commonly used for expropriation. Various bodies have the right to expropriate
land, including the Ministers of Public Works and Land Affairs, and local government.
2.2.2 Laws regulating rights to land
a) Extension of Security of Tenure Act 62 of 1997 (ESTA)
This Act regulates the circumstances under which poor people occupying rural land (typically farm
land) can be evicted. The Act applies to people who have permission (tacit or explicit) to live on
rural land belonging to someone else. The Act addresses the legacy of past discriminatory laws
such as the 1913 Land Act, which prohibited black ownership or tenancy of over 80% of rural land.
The Act:
*    Limits the circumstances under which eviction may take place.
*    Generally requires that people who have occupied land since before 1997 can be evicted only
if "suitable alternative accommodation" is available (some exceptions apply)
*    Provides additional protection for long terms occupiers (people over 60 years old who have
lived on the land for over 10 years) such that their occupation rights can be terminated only
under very limited circumstances
*    Provides that the rights of occupiers survive changes of ownership (new owners inherit the
ESTA obligations of the previous owner)
*    Provides for state support (subsidies) to enable occupiers to acquire independent rights to
land in either "on-farm" or "off-farm" settlements.
In effect the Act provides people over 60 of age with lifetime tenure security on land they have
occupied for over ten years, and requires that, in most other instances, owners cannot evict people
who are not "at fault", unless suitable alternative accommodation is available. Suitable alternative
accommodation cannot be less favourable than the current accommodation of the occupier. The
11



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Act provides that landowners who evict occupiers illegally can be arrested and serve prison
sentences. It also provides that people who are illegally evicted can be re-instated at the cost of the
landowner.
However illegal evictions do take place, especially under circumstances where occupiers are
isolated, do not know their rights, and do not know where to turn for assistance. Anecdotal evidence
from the Rural Legal Trust, established to provide legal support for farm workers throughout South
Africa, indicates that changes of land use and ownership associated with conservation projects are
a source of current illegal evictions in certain cases. A key trigger for illegal evictions is "vacant
possession" clauses in land purchase agreements, where the purchaser makes it a condition of sale
that the land must be vacant of occupiers before transfer takes place.
The World Bank has indicated in relation to the Greater Addo Elephant National Park that for
conservation bodies to insist on vacant-possession clauses in land purchase agreements is in
breach of OP 4.12, as it simply transfers the responsibility for dealing with the resettlement
consequences of conservation projects onto other parties who may then try to get away with illegal
evictions, to the detriment of the rights of the occupiers.
b) Land Reform (Labour Tenants) Act 30 of 1996
The Labour Tenants Act applies to fewer people than ESTA and provides stronger tenure rights
than ESTA. It applies to people who have occupied farms over generations, and who are paid for
their labour, at least partially, through access to land. It was introduced to protect a particular
historical class of rural dwellers, who have occupied farms over generations, and who historically
did not receive wages for the labour they provided, but were paid by the right to occupy and use a
portion of the farm. Labour tenancy survives mainly in parts of Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal, but
occurs on a limited scale in other provinces.
Labour tenants are granted strong tenure rights by the Act (protection from eviction) and also the
right to acquire the portion of land they occupy. The mechanism is an application process that
results in the Department of Land Affairs providing successful applicants with a subsidy that is used
to purchase land.
c) Interim protection of Informal Land Rights Act (31 of 1996) IPILRA
This is a very short piece of legislation that was designed to provide temporary protection of certain
informal land rights pending the introduction of comprehensive tenure legislation. It was designed to
lapse at the end of 1997 but has been extended every year because comprehensive tenure
legislation has still not been enacted for communal areas and people who have been the
undisputed occupants of land since 1992.
It does not apply to people who are tenants, workers, or people who have permission to occupy
land (subservient or contractual rights). Instead it applies to people who occupy land "as if they
were the owner". It was introduced to protect people who occupy land on an established,
12



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
undisputed basis, but nevertheless do not have legal or formal rights because of the legacy of racial
laws.
The Act provides that people cannot be deprived of informal rights except with their consent, or by
expropriation. In other words, informal land rights acquire the status of property rights in that people
cannot be deprived of them except by expropriation (which requires compensation) or by consent.
Customary land allocations in communal areas and the ex-homeland areas qualify as informal
rights, as do allocations in the Coloured reserves (land held in trust by government). Informal rights
also exist throughout South Africa in situations where people have lived on land without permission
and "as if they were the owner of the land" since 1992.
d) Prevention of Illegal Eviction from and Unlawful Occupation of Land Act 19 of 1998 (PIE)
This Act replaces the Illegal Squatting Act that previously governed various categories of eviction
from land. The Act governs the eviction of unlawful occupiers of land - in other words people who do
not have rights in terms of ESTA, IPILRA, other laws, contractual arrangements with the owners, or
any other consent to be on land. It sets out the procedures for eviction and says that eviction will be
ordered when it is "just and equitable" to do so. When the occupier has been in occupation for more
than six months, the availability of alternative accommodation is one of the factors the court must
consider in deciding whether eviction is just and equitable. This does not mean that there can be no
eviction unless there is alternative accommodation. Nor does it put an onus on the landowner to
provide alternative accommodation, as ESTA does under certain circumstances.
e) Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994
This Act provides for the restitution of land or rights in land for people who were deprived of land
rights as a result of racially discriminatory laws or practices after 1913. All claims had to be lodged
by 31 December 1998. Thus it is possible to establish whether a claim has been lodged in respect
of any particular piece of land.
In summary the body of land laws introduced after 1994 has a similar focus to the Bank's OP 4.12.
It protects the security of tenure (whether formal or informal) of vulnerable and poor sections of the
population and attempts to put in place procedural protections that ensure that where people do
lose access to land, they are consulted and compensated. ESTA, the Labour Tenants Act and
IPILRA all recognise different forms of established occupation of, and vested interests in land that
previously had no formal recognition because of racial prohibitions on black contractual rights to
land. In general, interventions that comply with OP 4.12 will also comply with the provisions of these
laws.
2.2.3 Laws regulating rights to the sea and marine resources
The South African legal regime governing the sea and access to marine resources is very different
from that governing land rights. This stems from the fact that the sea and all marine resources are
owned by the state. Various laws such as the Marine Living Resources Act (68 of 2000) have
created a system in terms of which no one may harvest marine resources except if granted the right
13



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
to do so by a permit. The Act provides that the Minister must have particular regard to the needs of
people from "historically disadvantaged sectors of society" in granting rights. It also sets out special
procedures to enable "subsistence" fishers to be recognised and granted non-transferable rights in
specifically established zones or areas. The Marine Living Resources Act also provides for the
establishment of Marine Protected Areas.
The current legal framework does not provide for compensation for the loss of previous access or
use of marine resources. Instead it attempts to deal with issues of poverty, past exclusion and
patterns of subsistence use by taking these factors into account in the allocation process. The
adequacy of this approach is controversial. So far no subsistence fishing rights have been granted,
partly because of problems concerning the definition of subsistence users.
The Bank's requirements concerning the treatment of people whose livelihoods may be affected by
the enforcement of restrictions in Marine Protected Areas, are stronger than those set out in the
Marine Living Resources Act. This is because OP 4.12 requires that all Protected Areas be
designed in a way that minimises negative impacts on local communities, and that the process of
establishing Protected Areas must include measures to mitigate any possible negative impact on
local communities caused by restrictions on access. The Marine Living Resources Act does not
explicitly require that existing informal users must be consulted prior to the establishment of Marine
Protected Areas, nor does it require measures to mitigate the possible negative impact on
livelihoods of restrictions on access.
However, the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (see below), which requires that all new laws
be advertised for public comment, is routinely applied. In practice, this has meant that, consultation
exercises with stakeholders are undertaken.
The Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA)
The Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) requires that organs of state follow fair
administrative procedures in their dealings with the public. These procedures focus on the right to
make representation as opposed to the right to be consulted. The Act is applicable generally, not
only to marine situations, and creates a default position where a specific law does not have any
such provisions. There is a debate as to whether PAJA's administrative procedures apply only to
decisions that affect rights (noting that the Marine Act does not include rights) or more broadly to
interests.
Thus the Bank's safeguards and Process Framework can build on and complement existing
practice with regard to Marine Protected Areas and put in place a binding procedural
safeguard. The Bank's safeguards will also ensure that C.A.P.E's Marine Protected Areas conform
to the requirements of International instruments signed and ratified by South Africa such as the
Biodiversity Convention and the Ramsar Convention that require that local communities participate
in the management and sustainable utilisation of conservation assets.
14



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
2.2.4 Laws regulating labour relations
The Labour Relations Act 1995 (LRA) provides the legal framework for labour law, especially
when it comes to termination of service, transfer of staff from one legal person to another and what
is considered to be fair labour practices.
Section 189 and 189A of this Act apply when an employer contemplates dismissing one or more
employees for reasons based on the employer's operational requirements. In terms of these
provisions the employer must engage employees in a meaningful joint consensus-seeking process
and attempt to reach consensus in the manner as prescribed. The aims of the engagement is to
craft appropriate measures to avoid the dismissals, to minimise the number of dismissals, to change
the timing of the dismissals, to mitigate the adverse effects of the dismissals. It must also address
the method for selecting the employees to be dismissed and the severance pay for dismissed
employees. If the employer employs more than 50 employees and proposes to retrench between 5
and 20% of the workforce (depending on the size of the workforce), or has retrenched this number
of employees within one year, more elaborate engagement and consultation is required, including
facilitation of negotiations by a facilitator of the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and
Arbitration.
Section 197 and 197A of the LRA applies when a business is transferred as a going concern.
These provisions are important where Executing Agencies take over existing concerns (such as
transfer of forestry workers) and where concessions are entered into and the project wants to
ensure the worker's jobs are protected. The new employer is automatically substituted in the place
of the old employer in respect of all contracts of employment in existence immediately before the
date of transfer. These provisions also apply to the transfer of a business in a context where the old
employer has gone insolvent if a scheme of arrangement is being entered into to avoid winding-up
or sequestration for reasons of insolvency, but not the provisions referred to immediately hereafter.
The new employer must offer terms and conditions that are on the whole not less favourable to the
employees than those on which the old employer employed them. For a period of 12 months after
the date of the transfer, the old employer is jointly and severally liable with the new employer
regarding an employee's dismissal for a reason relating to the employer's operational requirements
or the employer's liquidation or sequestration.
Sectoral Determinations issued by the Minister of Labour for a specific sector in terms of the Basic
Conditions of Employment Act 1997, set minimum wages and conditions of service for that
sector. A sectoral determination has, for example, been issued for the agricultural sector and one
for the forestry sector is being drafted.
In terms of the Unemployment Insurance Act, when an employee resigns or is dismissed he or
she is entitled to a payment of 45% of his or her wages for up to six months from the
Unemployment Insurance Fund. Certain member of the next of kin of a deceased employee can
also claim this benefit.
The Skills Development Act has been put in place with the intention of:
15



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
*    Providing for learnerships and other training Programs that lead to registered qualifications;
*    Promoting high quality education and training by a system that is cost-effective, accountable
and meets training needs;
*    Providing for the financing of skills development by means of a levy-grant scheme.
It should be possible at least partially to fund a well-designed training Program relating to changed
employment needs due to declaration of protected areas with funds collected through the skills levy.
16



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
3 C.A.P.E. Program activities that could trigger safeguard OP4.12
The C.A.P.E. ESMF sets out a process for screening proposed C.A.P.E. activities in order to
determine whether World Bank safeguard policies, including the Involuntary Resettlement
Safeguard, OP4.12, will be triggered. This RPF should therefore be read in conjunction with the
ESMF for C.A.P.E.
The information contained in this section is based on:
*    Information contained within various reports used to develop the C.A.P.E. Program (listed
under References);
*    Limited discussions held with representatives of the Executing Agencies;
*    Demographic information providing by Statistics South Africa; and,
*    An assessment of possible impacts based on an understanding of OP4.12 applied within a
South African context.
3.1  Social and economic context
The CFR spans the Western and Eastern Cape with an estimated population of about 5.2 million
people of whom 20 - 30% live in rural areas. These areas harbour the greatest biodiversity in the
CFR. South Africa is characterised by marked socio-economic disparities, high unemployment, a
debilitating HIV/AIDs epidemic and poverty. Unemployment in the Eastern Cape is estimated at
49%, while in the Western Cape it is 25%. The population of the Western Cape enjoys a greater
degree of human, economic and social development and has considerably more resources at its
disposal that the Eastern Cape. The Western Cape contains 10% of South Africa's population but
contributes 14% to the GDP, while the Eastern Cape has 16% of the population and only
contributes 7.5% to the GDP.
Due to this, the Western Cape experiences in-migration from the Eastern Cape. The Western Cape
has a net population growth of about 2,3% or 100 000 per annum. The Cape Metropolitan Council
(CMC) commissioned a study on migration patterns in the Cape Metropolitan Area (CMA) in 1998.
This revealed that while in the past, migration between the Western Cape and Eastern Cape
occurred in both directions, it is now largely one-way into the CMA. The Eastern Cape provincial
government's administrative capacity is weak, mainly because it had to amalgamate two former
homeland governments and a former white administration system. Many poorer rural communities
are dependent upon wild resources, particularly marine and medicinal plants, for subsistence and
income generation.
There are a number of different tenure forms in the CFR, including private (small holdings to larger
commercial farms), state (national, provincial and local government) and a small amount of
communal.
17



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
3.2 Identified interventions that could have impacts
3.2.1 Component 5 - Protected Areas
The C.A.P.E. Program has identified the consolidation and expansion of several large protected
areas that, together with a representative sample of smaller protected areas widely distributed
across the landscape, will achieve conservation targets in the CFR. In this regard, the proposed
GEF investment will contribute to the establishment of three land based initiatives, including two
,mega-reserves', and two clusters of marine protected areas (MPAs). The proposed activities
associated with these protected areas could potentially have involuntary resettlement/loss of access
impacts
Component 5 of the Program - unleashing the potential of protected areas, that describes the
activities associated with these five protected areas, is summarised in the table below.
Table 4: Summary of Component 5: Unleashing the Potential of Protected Areas
Problem statement                     Component output          3.2.1.1  Sub-components and activities
The current protected area system  is  Protected         areas  1. Establish & consolidate key protected
inadequate to achieve global conservation  contributing  to  priority  areas
targets for biodiversity in the CFR. Many of targets for conservation of  -  Three  prioritised  protected  areas:
the existing large protected areas include  the biodiversity of the CFR  Baviaanskloof,  Garden  Route,
land  under a   variety  of protection  are  consolidated   or       Cederberg
designations and managed by several established;   cost-effective  -  Two priority freshwater & estuarine
authorities. Large quantities of living marine  management is sustained;  systems
resources are harvested unsustainably with tourism development plans  -  Two  clusters  of  priority  marine
over exploitation in near shore areas by  are  implemented;  and     protected  areas:  Garden  Route
artisanal and subsistence fishers. It is stakeholders derive direct  (including Robberg, Tsitsikamma and
necessary and possible to establish several and indirect benefits    Goukamma) & Kogelberg
large protected areas that, together with a                     2.   Develop  sustainable  management
representative sample of smaller protected                      effectiveness
areas  widely  distributed  across  the                          -   Test a strategic PMS for priority
landscape will achieve conservation targets                          protected areas
in the CFR. There is a need to develop new                       -   Establish an information management
& diversified tourism products as a means                            system
to ensure appropriate use/appreciation of                        -   Plans for responsible tourism & visitor
globally significant biodiversity, and to inject                     impact
economic  growth. The   planning  and                            -   Facilitate  development of tourism
development of large protected areas                                infrastructure & facilities
provides an ideal means to involve/include                       -   Develop plans for responsible tourism
local communities in the design and                                  and visitor impact mitigation in four
expansion of these areas, and in the                                target protected areas
business and employment opportunities                            -   Implement   priority  management
that result.                                                         actions: done in a way as to simulate
SMME development
-   Undertake   capacity-building  for
protected area management
18



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
3.2.2 Impact of Baviaanskloof Megareserve and Surrounds
a.) Description of area
Located inland from Port Elizabeth, the area within the Baviaanskloof Planning Domain is relatively
sparsely populated due to its location, vegetation and climate. The main economic activity is
farming, which is mainly marginal. Three distinctly different units of land management and
population density occur within the planning domain, namely:
*    Sparsely populated marginal mountain land where small stock and cattle farming occurs,
e.g. the southern Kouga slopes and northern Baviaanskloof slopes. Population density
varies from 1 person per 1 OOOha to 15/1 OOOha.
*    More densely populated areas with irrigation land on which citrus and vegetable seed
farming takes place, e.g. Baviaanskloof, Cambria and Gamtoos River. Population density is
the highest here at 30/1 OOOha.
*    Uninhabited mountain areas on private land as well as conservation areas
Different communities in the area are:
*    Baviaanskloof farming community (70 white, 1 000 mostly coloured)
*    Steytlerville/Villowmore farming community (800)
*    Cambria farming community (400)
*    Gamtoos River farming community (3 000)
*    Southern Kouga Mountain farming community (1 500)
*    Langkloof farming community (8 000)
b.) Proposed activities
The model for the development of the megareserve is to try and encourage voluntary land use
change and multi-owner contractual reserve system. The Baviaanskloof megareserve project's
vision is a biologically economically and socially sustainable conservation area. Multi owner /
contractual models are being pursued in the majority of the planning domain. There are three main
types of inclusion in the reserve and each has different potential impacts. . They are:
1.   Promoting ecologically sustainable land management without changing land use from
agriculture to conservation. This could have minor impacts on job and tenure security for
rural population, including positive job creation impacts;
2.   Contractual reserves based on agreements with conservancies or groups of farms in which
title is retained but land use changes to conservation. This could have impacts on jobs and
tenure security, which should be generally positive impacts because of the opening of a
whole suite of new tourism and hospitality related jobs opportunities; and,
3.   Land purchase in a selected few priority areas, in which the provincial conservation
authority would become the managing party - the people working and living on these
properties will participate in deciding how to address physical relocation if this should be
unavoidable.
19



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
The project has four key areas of intervention that could have resettlement impacts:
1.   Possible physical relocation of people for megareserve consolidation;
2.   Acquisition of land for key sites;
3.   Change of land use resulting in job and accommodation impacts; and,
4.   Restriction of access to natural resources.
The Wilderness Foundation (WF) has indicated that, where relocation is proposed, this will only be
done in a consensual and voluntary manner. The project has no intention to be involved in
involuntary resettlements. It will provide independent verification that resettlement has been
voluntary as required by OP4.12. and will follow the procedures set out in this document.
See Figure 1 and 2 in Annexure B for maps showing the Baviaanskloof Megareserve planning
domain and footprint for expansion and consolidating, and estimated rural population in various
zones.
c.) Possible Impacts
i) Possible physical relocation of people
In the central western kloof of the Baviaanskloof megareserve planning domain, an area of some 52
000ha (about 10% of the planning domain), about 1 100 people live scattered along the road and
river. The land is used for farming, about 500ha is arable mainly along the rivers and this is where
the bulk of people are employed. The rest of the land is used for small stock. There are the
following settlements in this area:
*    Studtis - (also know as Bosdorp) land owned by Nature Conservation with at least 1 person
per household working for Nature Conservation. One suggestion is to encourage the
development of this settlement to accommodate some of the peoples from Coleskeplaas and
other farms.
*    Zaaimanshoek - church owned land with a combination of pensioners, unemployed and
employed (on farms) peoples.
*    Sewefontein - communally owned (small) farm, 75 stakeholders from the region bought
shares in the property with government housing grants. The limited number of houses means
that not all the shareholders live in the settlement (some live at Coleskeplaas).
*    Coleskeplaas - farm bought by Nature Conservation some years ago, envisaged to be a
western gateway to the reserve housing some staff as well as tourist accommodation in an
additional farm house. Currently it has a community of unemployed people living there many
of whom moved there recently- one person from each household has been working under a
temporary contract (financed by poverty alleviation and working in the conservation area on
various labour projects) some of these people have shares in, but no house at, Sewefontein,
and will agree to move if housing is provided there. For those without shares in Sewefontein
the current offer by the Eastern Cape Department of Nature Conservation is to accommodate
20



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
them at Bosdorp (necessitating deproclaiming the area and giving the people ownership of
new homes that would have to be built -funding options are being investigated).
*    Sandvlakte - recent portion of farmer Piet Kruger's land sold to a group of labourers because
their church is there. These shareholder labourers continue to work and live on Piet Kruger's
land, not at Sandvlakte.
Some farm workers and unemployed landless people may need to be relocated in this area but
these relocations would not be out of the megareserve, but WF rather envisages a rationalization of
the current settlements. Two existing settlement areas have been earmarked for expansion to
accommodate currently unemployed and employed people from various farms. It is important to
note that none of the settlements in the region have adequate municipal services due to their
extreme isolation. Any relocation or resettlement will be done in consultation with the affected
peoples. . To date, in discussion with the WF's Project Management Unit, people in the area have
indicated that they would like to stay where they are, but that as their main need is for jobs, they
would consider moving if these could be secured.
The Baviaanskloof Initiative's motivation for possible physical relocation is that the present
scattered settlement patterns could run contrary to the vision of creating a wilderness eco-tourism
experience that is a key tourism draw card. To achieve this wilderness experience it may be
appropriate for people scattered throughout the area to move into the two or three rural villages.
The intention is to discuss the need to consolidate and rationalise settlement in this area with the
affected people and have a bottom up process of consultation through which agreements are
reached about how this can be achieved. The RPF and RAP can assist to achieve this.
ii) Acquisition of land for key sites
The project is currently compiling a "catalogue" of priority sites, based on biological attributes
(biodiversity pattern and process), management objectives (consolidation/rationalization of
boundaries) and holder willingness, economic considerations (tourism potential) and social
implications (resettlement implications). They will identify small areas of land, which they hope to
buy. If this land needs to be cleared of people, it will have involuntary resettlement impacts.
iii) Change of land use resulting in job and accommodation impacts
One of the main objectives of the project is to actively promote land use change from agriculture to
conservation and tourism. In many of the areas in the planning domain small stock farming has lead
to severe degradation of the land (especially subtropical thicket vegetation). In some of these areas
the project will encourage a shift to indigenous game and related industries (hunting and
ecotourism) that more closely relate to nature conservation goals. To this end they have recently
facilitated the initiation of a CEPF funded study on the economic implications and possibilities in
conversion from small stock to game industry in the northern area of the planning domain. Because
of the nature of the land, arid conditions and low numbers of people it is feasible that any jobs lost
due to a change of land use will be replaced with jobs in conservation/tourism. Much of employment
type will mirror existing employment, e.g. manual labour, but there are also opportunities for better
paying types of jobs in the tourism sector.
21



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
iv) Restriction on access to natural resources
Currently there are low levels of resource use by people. The users can be divided into two groups
- those who have traditionally used resources and more recent users who are economically driven,
such as people harvesting honeybush tea. The current resource use is not heavy, as in other parts
of South Africa. The main problem with the recent users is that harvesting is informal, unregulated
and harvesting is not done in a sustainable manner. A potential difficulty is that some believe that a
wilderness experience means that resource use should be totally excluded. The formalisation of
resource use will result in the institution of rules and could lead to some restriction of present
access. It is not known what the value of veld products is for people in this area".
v) Categories of potentially affected people
The following categories of landowners, occupiers and users are found:
*    Landowners
o  Mainly white landowners with three farmers owning the majority of the land
o One land reform project where the owners are black and hold land in shares
(Sewefontein)
o Group of black owners of small portion of land with church on (Sandvlakte)
o Church land (Zaaimanshoek)
o  Land owned by Nature Conservation (Studtis/Bosdorp)
*    Farm occupiers living on private and state land that can be divided into
o Employed on the farms or by Nature Conservation
o Unemployed (80%)
o  Land users: people who have stock and harvest indigenous plants
3.2.3 Impact of Cederberg Megareserve and Surrounds
a.) Description of area
Located in the West Coast region inland, the area is one of the most impoverished parts of the
Western Cape with a 15% unemployment rate with most of the labour force being manual and
unskilled. The bulk of the population was classified "coloured"(76%) with low education levels.
Agriculture is marginal, except in the adjacent Citrusdal/Clanwilliam valley that has high value citrus.
This wilderness area receives low economic benefits from tourism.
b.) Proposed activities
According to the Western Cape Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB), the Cederberg Megareserve
intends achieving the goal of biodiversity conservation through supporting the process of
sustainability. The project aims to be environmentally, economically and socially sound and
supported by stakeholders, roleplayers and landowners through a participative and capacitated
process. The Cederberg project is currently in a planning process to identify the most appropriate
strategy for achieving its objectives in consultation with the local stakeholders, roleplayers and
5The value of veld products in the Agulhas Initiative is estimated to be R10million.
22



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
landowner under the auspices of the Cederberg Megareserve Steering Committee. Presently the
thinking is that there will be a matrix of different land-uses, forming a corridor between formal
conservation areas, with the goal of sustainable living conditions for all the people through
biodiversity conservation.
A map showing the planning domain is attached in Annexure B.
c.) Possible impacts
The Cederberg Project Management Unit, housed within the Western Cape Nature Conservation
Board, is responsible for establishing a management and business plan for the Cederberg
Megareserve in close collaboration with the Cederberg Megareserve Steering Committee. They
plan to consolidate all information and inputs from local stakeholders and roleplayers into the
strategic management and business plan to ensure a representative, transparent public
participation process.
A fine-scale planning exercise is to be initiated within the next month to identify land/water of high
biodiversity value, but it will also be sensitive to and incorporate social/economic aspects. This will
also be a participative process with input from all stakeholders and role players. Strategies will be
discussed with local stakeholders on the best ways to protect key sites - and may include contract
nature reserves, conservation agreements, best practice implementation or conservancies.
Implementation will be through negotiation, involvement and empowerment of local landowners.
The preferred option is for private landowners to protect and take ownership of priority areas on
their lands through for example stewardship Programs, rather than following a land acquisition
approach.
The Cederberg project is not able to identify the nature or possible zones of impact due to the stage
they are at in their Megareserve Process. The project could have the following impacts, but it is also
possible that negative impacts will not arise:
1. Loss of jobs, tenure security & accommodation - the main driver of this could be change of land
use, but it is rather likely that a change of land use will result in better opportunities for local people
2. Restriction of land use and/or access - harvesting of natural resources is already very limited,
thus not expected to have a significant impact on livelihoods
3. Physical relocation - is possible where key sites are acquired but is unlikely at this stage
3.2.4 Impact of the Garden Route Initiative
a.) Description of area
Located along the coast between Plettenberg Bay and George and stretching inland the area is
heavily populated with about half a million people resident and many more visiting the area as a
popular holiday destination. There are high rates of unemployment in some of the urban informal
and rural settlements. The main economic activity is agriculture, based on soft deciduous fruits and
dairy products. This is strongly supported by tourism with the Garden Route being the 5th most
popular tourist destination in South Africa. However the unstructured nature of tourism allows
significant leakage. The area has a number of fragile ecosystems under developmental pressure.
23



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
There are a large number of well established settlements ranging from urban towns, holiday coastal
resorts, sprawling lower income coloured settlements, rural forestry/agricultural settlements, and
farming communities to very poor sprawling informal settlements.
A map showing the planning domain is attached in Annexure B.
b.) Proposed activities
According to SANParks, this Initiative is not at a stage where they can identify any areas where
there could be physical relocation or land acquisition of key sites that could have involuntary
resettlement impacts. They cannot indicate whether this may be required in future or not. No
potential restrictions of existing land use and access rights have been identified.
c.) Possible impacts
The bulk of earmarked land in this Initiative is state land. About 50% of the land is owned by the
state but this is fragmented between different departments and agencies. Elements of this project
involve the transfer of land containing mountain catchment areas from the Department of Water
Affairs and Forestry (DWAF) and select commercial plantations from SAFCOL, who is privatising
these state assets, to conservation authorities. This includes the transfer of staff, assets and
liabilities.
The intention with these transfers and the subsequent change in land use from forestry to
conservation is to unlock the tourism potential to create jobs rather than lose them. The majority
of forest villages are on the edge of the protected area, although there is at least one within a
protected area. The plan is that these areas would be excised from the protected areas and the
local authorities would provide the services and become the responsible authority. There is a
detailed plan that has been drawn up by SAFCOL regarding their exit strategy from these non-
commercially viable state forests. SANParks does not intend to take on responsibility for these
forest worker settlements, but rather to excise them from protected areas.
People currently working for DWAF will be transferred lock, stock and barrel to SANParks. Their
work and accommodation will not change status - they will do similar jobs and continue living in
the same conditions. This is addressed in the transfer agreement between SANParks and DWAF
and the provisions of ESTA have been included in the agreement. This is an area that could
potentially have had involuntary resettlement impacts but as it is already covered by the
agreement between DWAF and SANParks it is excluded from this policy.
Although no specific areas have been identified it is possible that the following areas of intervention
could have involuntary resettlement/loss of access impacts:
1. Lose of jobs, tenure security & accommodation - particularly state land changing from forestry to
conservation
2. Restriction of land use and/or access - no potential zones of impact identified
3. Physical relocation - no potential sites identified at this stage, and is unlikely
24



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
3.2.5 Impact of the Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) - Kogelberg &Garden Route
a) Description of area
Three MPAs along the Garden Route, including Goukamma, Tsitsikamma and Robberg and the
Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve MPA. The Garden Route MPAs have been in existence for between
15 and 39 years. The Kogelberg MPA has not been established.
A map indicating the proposed marine protected areas is attached in Annexure B.
b.) Proposed activities
Some of the MPAs that form the focus of the proposed GEF intervention have already been
declared - notably the cluster of Garden Route MPAs. For these, one of the key aims of the
initiative is to ensure improved management and enforcement of restrictions on access.
The Kogelberg MPA has not been proclaimed and there is still fluidity with regard to boundaries and
exact areas that will be included.
i) Tsitsikamma, Goukamma and Robberg Marine Protected Area
GEF money is requested to improve the management of these MPAs, which have been in existence
unchanged for between 15 and 39 years. A recent survey (WWF - sponsored) of the state of MPA
management in South Africa has highlighted the need to apply more modern principles of
management in the MPAs of the Eastern and Western Cape. In particular, the guidelines recently
formulated under the IUCN initiative termed 'management effectiveness' are what will be applied to
these existing areas. This will involve a switch from a reactive to a pro-active form of enforcement,
involving a high-profile presence of field rangers and a range of communication material to
enlighten visitors. Most important, an effective monitoring Program will be introduced which will
enable management to adapt continuously to ensure that its objectives are met. The development
of eco-tourism opportunities in these MPAs, e.g. whale-watching and Scuba diving, is another
objective that could increase the potential for raising revenue to ensure that the MPAs are
financially sustainable. Managing these extra activities will require staff training and the
development of facilities. No fundamental change in law is anticipated for these MPAs.
ii) The proposed Kogelberg Marine Protected Area
The Kogelberg MPA has not been proclaimed, although a substantial amount of survey work and
consultation has already gone into its planning. The project was shelved due to the lack of a
sponsor to fund a marine park directorate. Further consultation is envisaged, and will form part of
the duties of the directorate, whose function it will be to develop the MPA into a self-sustaining
marine conservation area. A business plan has been drafted.
The directorate will be responsible for enforcement, monitoring, permit issue and communication.
Although legislative responsibility will be retained at central government level, the directorate will
25



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
form a critical important advisory body. Ongoing consultation and the handling of grievances will be
undertaken by the directorate.
The directorate will be housed by WCNCB and will be governed by a steering structure comprising
key institutions, including MCM and the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve Company.
c) Possible impacts
MPAs apply only to the sea, from the high water mark, thus the issue of relocation, and taking of
land does not arise. However the issue of the denial of access rights to marine resources is relevant
as the purpose of a Marine Protected Area is to deny access to all marine resources16 within the
specified area in order to protect marine resources, enable damaged resources to regenerate and
thereby restore marine resources for the benefit of all, including future users.
There are poor communities with a history of utilising marine resources in both Kogelberg and along
the Garden Route who will be affected. In Kogelberg a new MPA will be established, and along the
Garden Route existing MPAs will be better enforced...
Along the Garden Route there are poor communities that historically accessed the sea as a means
of livelihood. Several of these communities were affected by forced removals in terms of the Group
Areas Act and other laws. Poor people have also been steadily displaced by the high value of
coastal land, and land purchases for holiday homes and tourism. Thus there are communities who
have had to move away from sites adjacent to the coast, to locations on the inward side of the N2
highway. Not enough is known about the location of such communities and the extent and role of
marine resources in their livelihoods.
In this regard, it may be informative to undertake a preliminary study of current poor users along the
Garden Route during the inception phase of the project to screen and assess the potential impacts
of the C.A.P.E. Program on poor user groups, and to evaluate the relevance of OP4.12 and
associated implications accordingly. Such a study should precede a full scale PF for this area.
It is not always easy to differentiate between subsistence users who have an established history
and pattern of utilising marine resources and new users, some of whom may have turned to fishing
because of poverty, and some of whom work with poachers and syndicates engaged in the large
scale and illegal stripping of valuable resources such as abalone and rock lobster.
It is acknowledged that poor communities are likely to be affected by the declaration of MPAs, and
the enforcement of restrictions within MPAs. The challenge will be how to differentiate between
legitimate current and historical users whose interests must be accommodated, and people
16 The possibility for exemptions is created in the Marine Living Resources Act of 1998, and
according to Colin Attwood of Marine and Coastal Management various types of exemptions apply
in about half the MPAs in South Africa.
26



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
engaged in the illegal stripping of marine resources. The high value of some of the marine
resources in the Cape, together with the nature of the market, makes this a more pressing issue
than in other provinces.
Nevertheless, in terms of OP4.12 and for projects that are World Bank financed, local fisher
communities are protected by the World banks safeguard process, which requires that they be
consulted prior to the declaration of MPAs and the enforcement of MPA restrictions.
As part of the process of legitimising MPAs it is critical that such communities are identified and
included in the consultation process around the boundaries and terms of MPAs.
One of the key tools for mitigating the impact of MPAs on local users is by negotiating the boundary
of the MPA to enable users to maintain access to key resources. Another route is by exemptions for
certain categories of users or certain resources within the MPA. Exemptions can only be granted by
the Minister of Environmental Affairs, and only after consultation with the statutory Consultative
Advisory Forum. Whilst exemptions have been granted in various MPAs, it has been argued that
they create difficulties for enforcement, and also difficulties in terms perceived fairness, which may
lead to those who do not enjoy exemptions challenging the validity of the MPA restrictions.
The other obvious way of mitigating losses for local communities is by the creation of alternative
benefits and sources of income through tourism and other conservation related activities. It is
however often difficult to ensure that the people who benefit from these opportunities are the same
people who suffer from loss of access to marine resources.
3.2.6 Summary of possible impacts of protected area interventions
The main protected area impacts are summarised in the table below.
27



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Table 5: Summary of protected area interventions and their potential impact
Intervention site  Key biodiversity to be  Key institutions          Socio-economic &           Potential involuntary
protected                                     demographic factors       resettlementlloss of access
impact
1. Baviaanskloof  Major transition zone in  Lead                Population numbers           The project has four key areas of
Megareserve &    the eastern part of the  - Wilderness Foundation  - 135 453                intervention that could have
surrounds        CFR, including                                                              impacts:
afromontane forest, karoo  Partnering agencies  Rural economic activity,
shrublands, fynbos    - TERU                   employment and income        1. Possible physical relocation of
shrublands, cape      - Local Authorities      - Mostly marginal farming activity  people
transitional shrublands &  - EC Dept of Economic  with small amount of high value  2. Acquisition of land for key sites
sub-tropical thicket  Affairs, Environment &   citrus                       3. Change of land use resulting in
biomes                Tourism (DEAET): has     - Total employed: 33 977    job/accommodation impacts
delegated to WF                                       4. Restriction of access to natural
Core area is a vast   - Provincial Departments of  Settlement types         resources
unspoiled unique      Agriculture & Public Works,  - Small numbers live on large
mountain landscape,   Land Affairs, Local      farms, larger nos. live on small  The possible impacts can be
about 220 OOOha in    Government and Housing   no. of arable high value farms, &  summarised as follows:
extent                -National Department of  there are a no. of rural villages  1. Lose of jobs, tenure
Environmental Affairs and                                   security &
Tourism                  Access issues                      accommodation
- DWAF/water catchment   - Limited harvesting of indigenous  2. Restriction of land use
agencies                 plants (honeybush) & access to     and/or access
-ECTB                    land for stock                  3. Physical relocation
- Access to wood for cooking &
heating is important for many
poor people in the area
2. Cederberg     - Largely intact mountain  Lead                Population numbers           Similar to Baviaanskloof the
Megareserve &    fynbos                - WCNCB                  - 32 227                     project could have the following
17 Figures provided by StatsSA exclude urban areas
28



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Intervention site  Key biodiversity to be    Key institutions          Socio-economic &             Potential involuntary
protected                                      demographic factors       resettlementlloss of access
impact
surrounds         - Lies in transition zone                                                    impacts:
linking elements of    Partnering agencies       Economic activity, employment  1. Lose of jobs, tenure security &
mountain & arid fynbos  - DA                     and income                   accommodation - the main driver
with flora of Succulent  - DEADP                 - Mountainous land has poor  of this would be change of land
Karoo                  - PWD                     agricultural value while adjacent  use and intention is to have
- Mountain streams a   - DWAF/water catchment    valley has high value citrus  positive impacts
hotspot for endemism &  management               agriculture                  2. Restriction of land use and/or
diversity of freshwater  - Local authorities     - Total employed: 13 767     access - harvesting of natural
fish                   - Botsoc                                               resources is already very limited,
Settlement types             thus not expected to have a
- Scattered settlement on farms  significant impact on livelihoods
- A number of former "coloured"  3. Physical relocation - is
reserves & missions within area  possible where limited land of key
- Elandskloof restitution    sites is acquired but is unlikely at
community within area        this stage
Access issues
- Limited harvesting of natural
resources
- Access to wood for cooking &
heating is important for many
poor people in the area
3. Garden Route   - Highly impacted south  Lead                    Population numbers           Although no specific areas have
Initiative &      coast renosterveld &  - SAN Parks               - 217 097                     been identified the following
surrounds         afromontane habitats,                                                         impacts are possible:
endemic rich wetlands  Partnering agencies       Economic activity, employment  1. Lose of jobs, tenure security &
This runs from the  - More than 1 800   - CPU (WCNCB)              and income                   accommodation -particularly
29



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Intervention site  Key biodiversity to be    Key institutions           Socio-economic &             Potential involuntary
protected                                       demographic factors       resettlementlloss of access
impact
Touws River      indigenous species,     - DA                      - Economy is high value       state land changing from forestry
catchment in the  including Red data Book  - DEADP                 agricultural& tourism        to conservation, but intention is to
west to the Groot  species & endemic     - Local Authorities       - Garden Route is the 5th most  have positive impacts
River in the east  species               - Botsoc                  popular tourism destination in  2. Restriction of land use and/or
and from coast to  - Coastline supports rich  - Mountain to Ocean  South Africa, thus under high  access - no potential zones of
crest, but including  marine & inter-tidal life                    pressure for tourism development impact identified
adjacent          with breeding sites of                           - Total employed: 68 967      3. Physical relocation - no
conservation areas  endangered & rare birds                                                      potential sites identified at this
- Environmental gradient                         Settlement types              stage & unlikely
from inland to coast                             - Large number of settlements
includes transition zones                        range from urban towns, holiday
of importance to                                  resorts, lower income coloured
mitigating climate change                        settlements, rural hamlets,
farming communities to poor
sprawling informal settlements.
Access issues
- Harvesting of natural resources
- Access to wood for cooking &
heating is important for many
poor people in the area
4. Marine protected                      Lead                                                    Potential loss of access to marine
area adjacent to                         - SAN Parks                                             resource by poor fishing
Garden Route                                                                                     communities in adjacent areas.
Initiative                               Partnering agencies
- WCNCB
- Local Authorities
30



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Intervention site  Key biodiversity to be     Key institutions           Socio-economic &             Potential involuntary
protected                                       demographic factors        resettlementlloss of access
__________________________                         ~~~~impact
- DEADP
- Civil Society Organisations
5. Marine protected  Marine resources under  Lead                                                 Loss of access to marine
area adjacent to  severe threat          - WCNCB                                                  resource by poor fishing
Kogelberg                                                                                         communities in adjacent areas.
Biosphere Reserve                        Partnering agencies
- Overberg Municipality
- Kogeberg Biosphere
Reserve Company
- Civil Society Organisations
6. Other potential areas could include:
- Watershed management. As over abstraction of water is a problem in the CFR it is possible that measures could be introduced to limit this, which could
impact on existing access and/or use rights. If this should occur impacts could be similar to those described for the marine areas and a pro-poor
participatory process set out in the Water Act will be followed. This process is similar to the PF and application thereof will be easily to align with the Water
Act requirements.
- The establishment of two priority freshwater and estuarine systems. They are not expected to have impacts, but if they do this would be along the lines
of restriction access and then they should be treated in the same way as proposed for the marine protected areas.
31



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
3.2.7 Discussion of potential impacts and associated mitigation measures and
opportunities per component
The potential impacts of the various GEF supported components and how these could be
mitigated is reflected below:
Table 6: Impact and mitigation per component
Component and GEF    Relevance of OP4.12 and related opportunities.
US$ allocation
1. Institutional     This component is not expected to have any impact that could trigger this
strengthening ($1.2m)  safeguard.
Potential Opportunities:
. Inform, educate & increase the capacity of the implementing agencies to deal
with the issue of resettlement and the creation of benefits.
. Identify employment and migration trends and patterns in areas falling in and
adjacent to the protected areas to monitor potential unintended
consequences of the Program (positive and negative).
2. Conservation      This component is not expected to have any impact that could trigger this
education ($0.6m)    safeguard.
Potential Opportunity:
. Inform, educate & increase the capacity of the implementing agencies to deal
with social impacts and the creation of benefits.
3. Establishing the  This component is not expected to have any impact that could trigger this
foundations of the   safeguard.
biodiversity economy  Potential Opportunity:
($0.65m)             Benefits to local communities as a result of eco-tourism development &
markets for environmental services.
4. Program co-       This component is not expected to have any impact that could trigger this
ordination,          safeguard.
management and       Potential Opportunity:
monitoring ($0.85)   Monitor and review this safeguard.
5. Unleashing the    This component could have impacts that could trigger this safeguard, particular
potential of protected  activities involving the establishment of the following five protected areas:
areas ($4.3m)        Baviaanskloof Megareserve, Cederberg Megareserve, Garden Route Initiative;
Garden Route Marine Protected Areas and Kogelberg Marine Protected Area.
These impacts could include:
1. Loss of jobs, tenure security & accommodation
2. Restriction of land use and/or access
3. Physical relocation
The establishment of two priority freshwater and estuarine systems is not
expected to have impacts that trigger this safeguard. If the safeguard is
triggered, this would be along the lines of restriction access, and they should be
treated in the same way as is proposed for the marine protected areas.
Where these impacts do occur, either the RPF or PF would apply.
32



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
6. Identifying and  This component is not expected to have any impacts that could trigger this
securing biodiversity in safeguard as land acquisition and restrictions on resource use are not
key sites ($1.8m)  involved.
Potential Opportunity:
. Create a baseline of information regarding the possible impact on people.
. Monitor landowner buy-in to the safeguards, as part of the sub-component that
aims to increase landowner commitment to conservation.
7. Integrating     This component is not expected to have any impacts that could trigger this
biodiversity concerns  safeguard.
into watershed
management ($1.6m)  However, should existing water access and/ or use rights be affected, the
safeguard would be triggered and the Process Framework would apply.
3.2.8 Summary of potential impacts
In summary, of the seven components that form the proposed C.A.P.E. Program, it has been
concluded at this stage that only Component 5 has the potential to trigger OP4.12. This
component includes the expansion and consolidation of protected areas. Additional activities
could be found to trigger OP4.12 as the C.A.P.E. Program develops.
C.A.P.E.'s strategy for the expansion of protected areas encourages voluntary land use change
and multi-owner contractual reserve systems. As such, the expansion and consolidation
Program will focus on the re-allocation of state land to conservation, and contractual
agreements with private owners without transfer of ownership. In terms of its stated objectives,
the C.A.P.E. Program does not intend to displace people from land and/or to remove ESTA
rights. This will only happen in exceptional circumstances.
Three mechanisms whereby land could be included in protected areas are described in the
C.A.P.E. Program documents. These are mentioned below, and the associated impacts on job
and tenure security, and access to resources, in relation to the potential of this activity to trigger
OP4.12 are described.
While changes of land use may affect current economic activities on the land (e.g. jobs or
livelihood strategies based on natural resources), the C.A.P.E. Programs' intention is that this
results in socio-economic benefits through new opportunities that are created (e.g. tourism,
conservation related jobs).
The Executing Agencies have embarked on an extensive concessioning Program for eco-
tourism facilities and services in protected areas of the CFR. One of the key sources of benefits
for the local population is the opportunity that arises from these concessions. It is a challenge to
ensure an equitable balance between revenue generation and ensuring direct involvement and
beneficiation by local communities. The content of concession agreements will include provision
for them to address possible resettlement impacts.
33



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Table 7: Summary of land use changes that could be associated with C.A.P.E. and potential
impacts in terms of OP4.12
Type of land use change               Potential to trigger OP4.12
Promotion of ecologically sustainable land Potential  impacts  on  job  and  tenure
management without changing land use from  security/accommodation, and access issues for
agriculture to conservation.          rural population.
Creation of contractual reserves based on Potential  impacts  on  jobs  and  tenure
agreements with conservancies or groups of security/accommodation.
farms in which title is retained but land use These could be positive due to new tourism and
changes to conservation.              hospitality related opportunities.
Land purchase in which a conservation Potential  impacts   on   jobs,   tenure
authority or managing agent would become the security/accommodation, and possibly physical
managing party, and land use changes to relocation
conservation.
3.2.9 Summary of possible opportunities
In summary, the C.A.P.E. Program could provide for the following key opportunities in terms of
OP4.12:
* Education around this safeguard can be spread across a wide range of institutions.
Baseline protections (as required by WB OP4.12 and South African laws) and best
practice can be achieved.
* It creates a forum for all parties to agree on this policy that is linked to the realisation of
the C.A.P.E. Programs' key objective of involving and benefiting people. This links to
C.A.P.E.'s consultation strategy.
* Can build on monitoring and evaluation function to monitor compliance and to ensure
good practice.
* Creates the possibility for capacity building of key institutions at local level.
* A link can be made to the C.A.P.E. Programs' incentives approach where best practice
should be rewarded and possibly priority access to government Programs such as the
housing and land subsidies can be realised
34



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
4 The RPF and PF processes that will apply to the C.A.P.E. Program
4.1 Why RAPs and Plans of Action cannot be prepared now
The C.A.P.E. Program is a large and complex intervention containing many sub-components
and projects. The purpose of the C.A.P.E. RPF and PF is to provide a policy framework and
procedural safeguards that bind C.A.P.E executing agencies and ensure compliance with
OP4.12. in implementing the Program.
It is not possible to determine the possible extent or zone of impact of the various sub-projects
or sub-components at this stage because the C.A.P.E. Program is in an early planning stage. It
is only possible to indicate very broad areas (for example the megareserve areas) where cases
of involuntary resettlement/loss of access may occur. Because it is not possible presently to
identify the specific areas where involuntary resettlement/loss of access may occur, it is not
feasible to undertake a census or to estimate the total population that may be affected. It is also
not appropriate at this stage to discuss the possibility of loss of income sources or means of
livelihoods with potentially affected people when the exact area where this may occur is not
clear. It could in fact cause considerable confusion and stress if people, who may well not be
affected, are interviewed as part of a census process or consulted on the broad policy
framework.
Due to the above and in terms of paragraph 26 of OP4.12, the World Bank has indicated that an
RPF will suffice and that RAPs and POAs are not needed at this stage of the Program.
The Executing Agencies who are responsible for the implementation of the C.A.P.E. Program
are committed to undertaking detailed RAPs and POAs as and when they are required.
When it is clear where involuntary resettlement/loss of access will occur, consultation with
affected people will be undertaken as part of the RAP process. The process and procedures for
doing this are set out in this document.
4.2 RPF
In terms of the requirements of OP4.12, this RPF for the C.A.P.E. Program sets out for the
following:
*    Eligibility criteria for defining categories of potentially affected people;
*    Policy Principles;
*    Methods of valuing affected assets and developing viable options; and,
*    RAP preparation process and contents, including both abbreviated and full RAPs.
These aspects are discussed below.
35



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Proposed grievance procedures, institutional and implementation arrangements, budgetary
provision and monitoring and evaluation procedures are discussed later in the document.
4.2.1 Eligibility criteria for defining categories of potentially affected people
The Bank's OP4.12 suggests the following three criteria for eligibility:
*    Those who have formal rights to land (landowners, access and use rights defined by
some legally recognised process, contractual obligations, ESTA rights). They are eligible
for resettlement compensation for loss of assets and land.
*    Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time the census begins but have
a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims are recognized under the laws of
South Africa (land claims). They are eligible for resettlement compensation for loss of
assets and land.
*    Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying, using
or getting their livelihood from. They are eligible for resettlement compensation for loss of
assets only, not for land.
Where involuntary resettlement/loss of access results from activities associated with the
C.A.P.E. Program in terms of the RPF, the following categories of potentially affected people
may qualify for resettlement compensation:
*    Landowners, including private individuals, corporates, institutions and the State
*    Farm occupiers living on private and state land, including the employed, the unemployed
and those with different types of ESTA rights;
*    Land users, including people who use land or resources they don't own such as those
with stock or those who harvest indigenous plants. This does NOT include someone
opportunistically invading a site after disclosure of the project (In South African law the
Prevention of Illegal and Unlawful Occupation Act provides for the eviction of such
people). It also would not protect criminal activity18 such as the poaching experienced in
some of the marine areas19;
*    Restitution claimants;
*    Users of marine resources; and,
*    Individuals and companies providing support services to commercial forestry.
The following categories of population are potentially affected but are not specifically eligible for
compensation
a) Seasonal workers are not specifically eligible as they are only partially affected, being
mobile and selling labour in the wider area. Furthermore, it is almost impossible to
18 The distinction between unlawful and criminal should be understood. Established patterns of
occupation and use that are not necessarily lawful would fall within the scope of the safeguard. However
the safeguard includes a test of reasonableness, and it cannot reasonably be expected to protect criminal
activities. Where the distinction is relevant in a particular project the RAPs and POA should include a
discussion of the circumstances, and explain why certain users have been treated differently.
19 World Bank, Involuntary Resettlement, Key Concepts, as applied to C.A.P.E.
36



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
accurately trace seasonal workers and to measure their losses with any degree of
confidence.
b) People living in the broader area where the C.A.P.E. Program operates that rely on the
current socio-economic configuration around agriculture for their livelihood. It is not possible
to quantify potential losses and it is anticipated that the conversion from farming to
agriculture will create substantial advantages.
c) Host towns which may receive ex-farm workers.
4.2.2 Policy Principles
The following principles will guide the process and all RAPs will comply with these principles.
Principle 1: Avoid or minimise triggering this safeguard through encouraging landowner
and occupier willingness
The C.A.P.E. Program and all responsible Executing Agencies (from here on referred to as the
responsible institution) will attempt to avoid triggering this safeguard where feasible, exploring
viable alternative options. Attainment of the project objectives will be driven by landowner and
occupier willingness. When the safeguard cannot be avoided, the responsible institution will
explain why the proposed activities are critical to the attainment of the C.A.P.E. objectives. All
trade-offs and alternatives will be considered before decisions are taken.
Principle 2: Compliance with both letter and spirit of the law
The C.A.P.E. Program and all responsible institutions will comply with all legal requirements and
OP4.12. No vacant possession sale clauses (as explained in section 3) will be included in any
land acquisition agreements or contractual arrangements.
Principle 3: Genuine consultation and participation must take place
Genuine consultation, participation and negotiation will take place with all potentially affected
people and all other relevant stakeholders, including local authorities. This means that the final
outcome of a RAP is not given at the outset and that all interests will be taken seriously.
Consultation and participation will take place during project planning and implementation and as
a part of project monitoring. The affected people will be offered a range of options and will be
empowered to engage in the process and make an informed choice. In cases of voluntary
resettlement, independent verification of free choice will be done. As the C.A.P.E. Program
already has existing consultative methods and structures, where feasible and appropriate, these
will be utilised, noting that the emphasis in this process will be on dealing directly with the
affected people, particularly the poor and vulnerable.
Principle 4: Undertake baseline socio-economic survey/s and integrate RAPs into
existing planning processes
When the OP4.12 safeguard is triggered, a preliminary boundary determination of the affected
area will be undertaken, followed by a baseline survey will be conducted that provides a census
of all potentially affected people and assets and of their socio-economic conditions. OP4.12 will
37



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
apply in all cases where social and economic impacts that could be negative are identified. It is
not possible to discern whether a resettlement will be voluntary or involuntary unless an
investigation/survey has been conducted. For this reasons the process set out in Figure 2 will
be followed in all cases.
The baseline survey is essential because
*    It forms the basis for identifying the various kinds of impacts
*    It is a vital guide to planning and designing resettlement Programs
*    It provides the baseline against which the incomes and livelihoods of affected people are
measured
RAPs will be integrated with existing planning process so as to avoid duplication and link into
the existing consultative process already being undertaken in these projects.
Principle 5: RPF applicable to all contractual arrangements to avoid/minimise/mitigate
involuntary resettlement/loss of access
This policy will be made applicable to all contractual arrangements with other institutions,
concessionaires and private landowners so as to ensure that this involuntary settlement is
avoided or minimised or mitigated
The protected area expansion Program on private landholdings will primarily (if not wholly in
most cases) involve some form of contractual inclusion into the conservation estate rather than
outright acquisition. The contracts may range from formal long-term legally binding contracts to
loose voluntary associations. If it is a contractual arrangement, details of how the people living
and/or working on the land will benefit from this will be specified. If it is a concessionaire type
agreement then a Labour Relations Act section 197 transfer will be included to ensure transfer
of the labourers to the concessionaire. If the landowner or concessionaire is not willing to
comply with the RPF then no contract will be entered into with them.
Principle 6: Equivalence or better off test
Where involuntary resettlement/loss of access cannot be avoided, those affected will be placed
in at least an equivalent position, and preferably are better off than before, and in a manner
which is sustainable. The responsible institution will ensure that this safeguard is treated as an
integral part of land acquisition/re-allocation/contractual agreement from the earliest stages of
land transactions. A suite of options will be developed for discussion with those affected who will
be provided with the necessary assistance to make an informed choice. In the unlikely case of
physical relocation, replacing housing and/or arable land at the level enjoyed before
resettlement amounts in theory to the restoration of the status quo. In practice, such
'mathematical' restoration can leave people worse-off if they are cut off from their resource
base. The suite of options could include a combination of the following as relevant to the
particular circumstances:
38



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
*    Employment within the institution, in associated development projects or other forms of
employment in close proximity to the affected area (this must be done as a collaborative
effort with other responsible public and private organisations)
*    LRA section 197 labour transfer in applicable cases involving concessionaires
*    Equivalent or better accommodation and levels of tenure security. Any physical relocation
must comply with ESTA's "suitable alternative accommodation" requirement
*    Measures to guarantee that livelihoods and standards of living do not decline and if
possible are improved over time
*   Training opportunities to affected persons to enhance their prospects of future
employment
*   Where feasible, priority access with approved budgets to other government Programs
such as the housing, land reform and job creation Programs
The positive impact of resettlement will be publicised to show that the C.A.P.E. Program is
delivering benefits to people while conserving biodiversity.
Principle 7: Fairness and reasonableness
In developing options and negotiating decisions around choices all parties are encouraged to be
fair and reasonable. All executing agencies commit themselves to acting in a fair and
reasonable manner in the execution of C.A.P.E. projects.
Principle 8: Budget as an upfront project cost
Experience across the world shows that unless resettlement is built in as an upfront project cost,
it tends to be under budgeted, that money gets whittled away from the resettlement budget to
,more pressing' project needs, and that it tends to be seen as peripheral to the overall project.
The Executing Agency will be responsible for the budget
Principle 9: Cater for vulnerable population
Vulnerable groups, as defined in OP4.12, merit particular support in a number of ways.
Members of vulnerable groups are often not able to make their voice heard effectively and
account should be taken of this in the consultation and planning processes, as well as in
establishing grievance procedures. They are often physically weaker and may need special help
in the relocation phase, as well as additional rations, assistance and medical attention in settling
on to new properties. Physically or socially weaker people are often short on strength and skills.
They tend to get sidelined in the competition for jobs or benefits. Their special needs will be
identified and catered for in a fair and reasonable manner.
4.2.3 Methods of valuing affected assets and developing viable options
OP4.12 requires that methods of valuing affected assets be specified in the RPF. The Bank's
policies require that all affected assets (land and structures) be compensated at their
replacement cost. Replacement cost of an affected asset is equivalent to the amount required to
replace the asset in its existing condition. Where there are not markets in old housing that
39



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
function well, the replacement cost of structures will be equal to the cost of
constructing/purchasing a new structure to equivalent or better standard, without making any
deductions for depreciation.
The approach taken in this project is to develop resettlement options that will place the affected
people in an equivalent or better situation than they are presently in. These options will be
developed in conjunction with the affected households and instead of a mathematical
application of standard compensation packages based on valuation of assets, an approach will
be used where practical and implementable options that improve the position that people
presently live in, are developed for the whole affected project. Each affected household will then
be allowed to choose between options. These options will contain various elements, all of which
will be at least equivalent to the affected person's existing situation, but cumulatively will place
the people in a better situation. This approach fits into the benefits orientation of the C.A.P.E.
Program.
To be able to develop viable options that are at least equivalent to the existing situation, it will
be necessary to develop, in the socio-economic survey, a database of assets, a description of
the nature of those assets and how people make a livelihood, as well as a full description of
people's ESTA rights. This then provides the baseline against which the option can be
assessed. This information will be gathered in the socio-economic survey. Actual valuation of
assets by an accredited valuer will only occur where cash compensation is involved or there is a
dispute between the Executing Agency and the affected people about the nature of the options
and a verification of the value of the options as compared to the affected people's existing
situation is needed.
It is very important in developing options that a situation be avoided where outsider's
perceptions of what is "better" take precedent over the views of the affected people themselves.
In all cases all parties, including the affected people, should comply with the principle of
reasonableness and fairness.
The affected people will be informed of other instances where this issue has been addressed
and potential long-term impacts of their choice. They will be empowered to actively participate in
both the development of options and negotiations around their choice. In exercising their choice
they should be encouraged to act in accordance with the principle of reasonableness and
fairness so that win-win solutions can be found.
It is important, in developing options, to include consideration of all aspects that might have an
adverse impact. An example of an option that can place people in a precarious situation is that
of placement in housing in a rural township, village or town, if ability to pay rates and services
charges is not taken into consideration. These services are generally free or heavily subsidized
on farms. Urban residents need a regular cash income to maintain monthly payments, or there
is a danger that they will fall into arrears with their rates and service charges, leading to their
losing their housing.
40



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
4.3 RAP preparation
4.3.1 Preparation of RAPs and planning processes
A RAP is done for each sub-project/component where the safeguard is triggered when it is clear
where the zone of impact will be. At this stage the Executing Agency should prepare a RAP that
is consistent with this RPF. This should be submitted to the Executing Agency, CCU and World
Bank for approval before any land acquisition, resettlement, loss, denial of, and restriction of
access to economic resources or any other impact on livelihood occurs. The Bank may decide
over time, once a few RAPs have been successfully undertaken, that its approval of each RAP
is not required.
All C.A.P.E. Programs follow a consultative planning process and are in different stages of
existing processes. It is important not to duplicate planning or confuse stakeholders with
multiple processes. It is thus proposed that the RAPs are integrated into these existing planning
processes and that these processes are adapted to accommodate the contents that are
required in a RAP.
It should be possible to draw some of the information required for a RAP from other sources.
This will require that management of each of the protected areas indicate where and how RAPs
will occur within their planned processes. Service providers experienced with resettlement
issues could be contracted to develop the RAP in extensive and/or complex cases.
Due to the iterative nature of the C.A.P.E. Program, RAPs will also be done on an iterative
basis. Presently the only potential zone of impact that is sufficiently identified where a RAP may
be required during project inception is the central Baviaanskloof valley where physical relocation
is a possibility.
The process to be followed in implementing this safeguard policy, both RAPs and a Plan of
Action is described in section 8.
4.3.2 Contents of extensive RAP20
The final contents of a RAP will depend on the nature of the issue, its scale and scope.
Presented below is a generic contents page for an extensive RAP with some suggested
accompanying tables. Not all RAPs need to be so comprehensive. The World Bank defines an
abbreviated RAP (ARAP) as one where the impacts on the entire displaced population are
minor (i.e. if affected people are not physically displaced and less than 10% of their productive
assets are lost) or fewer than 200 people are displaced
A RAP should contain the following elements, as relevant to the specific project:
1.   Description of project
20 OP4.12 Annex A as applied to the C.A.P.E. Program
41



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
2.   Potential impacts - detailed identification of where and what
3.   Objectives of the RAP
4.   Baseline socio-economic survey studies to include a census that covers:
*    Current occupants of the affected area to establish a basis for the design of
the resettlement Program
*    Standard characteristics of displaced households, including a description of
production systems, labour, and household organization; and baseline
information on livelihoods and standards of living
*    The magnitude of the expected loss-total or partial-of assets, and the
extent of displacement, physical or economic
*    Information on vulnerable groups for whom special provisions may have to
be made
*    Provisions to update information on the displaced people's livelihoods and
standards of living at regular intervals so that the latest information is
available at the time of their displacement
*    Land tenure and transfer systems, including an inventory of common
property natural resources from which people derive their livelihoods and
sustenance, non-title-based usufruct systems (including fishing, grazing, or
use of forest areas) governed by local recognized land allocation
mechanisms, and any issues raised by different tenure systems in the
project area
*    Public infrastructure and social services that will be affected
*    Social and cultural characteristics of displaced communities, including a
description of formal and informal institutions
5.   Legal framework - the scope of the power of eminent domain and the nature of
compensation associated with it, in terms of both the valuation methodology and the
timing of payment; the applicable legal and administrative procedures; relevant law;
and any legal steps necessary to ensure the effective implementation of resettlement
activities
6.  Institutional framework - the identification of agencies responsible for resettlement
activities and assessment of their capacity
7.   Eligibility - definition of displaced persons and criteria for determining their eligibility for
compensation and other resettlement assistance, including relevant cut-off dates
8.   Valuation of and compensation for losses - the methodology to be used in valuing
losses to determine their replacement cost; and a description of the proposed types
and levels of compensation if applicable (see (i) below)
9.   Resettlement options - These options should be developed in conjunction with the
affected households and instead of a mathematical application of standard
compensation packages, an approach should be used where practical and
implementable options that improve the position that people presently live in, are
developed for the whole affected project. Each affected household should then be
allowed to choose between options. If physical relocation address site selection, site
preparation and relocation; housing, infrastructure and social services
42



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
10. Environmental protection and management - how any environmental impacts caused
by relocation will be addressed
11. Community consultation and participation - a description of the strategy for
consultation with and participation of affected people during the resettlement process;
summary of views; a review of the resettlement options presented and the choices
made by displaced persons regarding options available to them; if physical relation
deal with integration with host population
12. Grievance procedures
13. Organisational responsibilities - organisational responsibility for implementing
resettlement
14. Implementation schedule
15. Costs and budget - Tables showing itemized cost estimates for all resettlement
options and activities, including allowances for inflation, population growth, and other
contingencies; timetables for expenditures; sources of funds; and arrangements for
timely flow of funds, and funding for resettlement, if any, in areas outside the
jurisdiction of the implementing agencies
16. Monitoring and evaluation
The chosen resettlement option should be summarised in such a table:
Area/farm         Affected  household Resettlement Option Notes
details           Chosen
The following generic clauses/forms could be designed by the CCU and supplied to Executing
Agency for use:
*    Clauses for use in contractual agreements between the Executing Agency and private
owners and/or concessionaires stipulating that the contractor agrees to comply with the
RPF, stating how the RPF will be complied with, giving details of the potentially affected
households (information that is summarised from a socio-economic survey) and setting
out reporting and monitoring requirements
*    Generic form signed by an affected household (both main male and female members of
household) indicating which resettlement option they have chosen and that they agree
with it.
*    Generic form for independent verification that affected households have had the option to
refuse resettlement, and they nevertheless have resettled based on prior informed
consent.
*    In application cases, generic contract between the owner and the occupier that confirms
the continuation of the occupier's previous ESTA rights, in cases where ESTA rights
holder agree to move to another farm on condition that they do not lose their ESTA rights.
(ESTA rights strengthen with length of occupation, and are stronger on land occupied
from before1997. Landowners may contract out of some of their ESTA obligation on land
occupied after 1997.)
43



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
4.3.3 Consultation with affected people during RAP process
To address the impacts under this policy, OP4.12 requires that RAPs should include measures
to ensure that the displaced persons are:
*    Informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
*    Consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and economically
feasible resettlement alternatives;
*    Provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for losses of assets
and access attributable to the project;
*    Enabled to restore and preferably improve their living standards compared to pre-project
ones.
Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential affected people
the opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of the project activities and
reduce the likelihood for conflicts between and among them and the responsible institution. The
C.A.P.E. Programs' public participation framework and South African legislation and policy
require a thorough process of consultation. A description of this is set out in the document
entitled "Participatory Approach" by David Shandler, dated April 2003.
Public consultation will take place at the inception of the planning process when the potential
land areas are being considered. The participation strategy would evolve around the provision
of opportunities for full involvement. Therefore, as a matter of strategy, public consultation would
be an on-going activity taking place through out the entire project cycle.
Public participation and consultation could take place through one-on-one direct engagement
with affected people; community meetings; local radio (dependent on extent of issue & cost);
request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/forms; explanations of
project ideas and requirements; making public documents available at the local and household
levels at suitable locations like the offices of the local authority, local offices of provincial
authorities and conservation agencies, the church, through NGOs or advice offices. These
measures would take into account the low literacy levels prevalent in rural communities as well
as the language preference by allowing enough time for responses and feedback.
For the purposes of providing verification of the prior informed consent of affected people, the
following will be provided:
*    A process that allows for the development of resettlement options and negotiations with
affected people to finalise option choice;
*    A document signed by each affected household indicating their resettlement option
choice; and,
*    A document providing independent verification of free choice.
44



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
4.4 Process Framework
The Process Framework is applicable where access to resources may be restricted in both
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) and Terrestrial Protected Areas.
4.4.1 Introduction
This section draws on the process used in the establishment of the Cape Peninsula National
Park as described by Barry Clark and includes steps and procedures required by the Bank's OP
4.12 (sections 3(b), 7 and 31).
The Process Framework set out below will be followed in all Marine Protected Areas and
Terrestrial Protected Areas where activities associated with the C.A.P.E. Program could cause
restriction of access rights to resources.
The PF will generate the resettlement components of the plans of action required by the Bank
prior to the enforcement of protected area restrictions.21
These procedures would apply when new protected areas are declared. They could also apply
when restrictions in existing areas are enforced.
4.4.2 Proposed process
The following activities shall be undertaken during the preparation of a site specific PF and
POA.
Identification of stakeholders and enquiry to establish patterns of past and current use
resources within the proposed protected area;
Determination of eligibility criteria;
Participation process with affected people;
Reporting;
Establishment of grievance procedure for the PF;
Monitoring and Evaluation for the PF; and,
Plan of Action.
These are described below.
a). Identification of stakeholders and enquiry to establish patterns of past and current
use resources within the proposed protected area
The implementing agency will undertake a study to identify patterns of past and current use of,
and access to, resources in the envisaged protected area.
This study will include interviews with identified users, and will target use and access by local
communities living around the MPA area, with special emphasis on categories cited by OP 4.12
21 See section 31 of OP 4.12
45



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
as vulnerable i.e. those below the poverty line, the landless, the elderly, women and children,
indigenous persons or other displaced persons who are not protected through national
legislation.
The study will investigate the history of current patterns of use/access to marine resources and
set out how long they have been in operation. It will also investigate the extent that marine
resources are used for subsistence or basic livelihoods purposes, and what other livelihood
options and alternatives are available to users. The study will also comment on the extent to
which established patterns of use/access are environmentally sustainable, differentiating
between types of use patterns that exist.
The study will be used to identify stakeholders who must be consulted in relation to the
boundaries, terms, and distribution of benefits from the proposed MPA. In this regard, based on
the study, the implementing agency will propose criteria for eligibility, and insofar as it may be
advisable to treat different categories of users differently, the implementing agency may also
propose categories of eligibility (i.e. degree of interest/need). The eligibility criteria will take into
account balancing the need for conservation with the nature of the interests of different users
and also the extent to which they are reliant on access to marine resources for their livelihoods.
b). Determination of eligibility criteria
The categories of eligibility developed may include, among others, poor people whose means of
livelihood are to some extent dependent on established patterns of access to marine resources,
and may be detrimentally affected by prohibitions on access to marine resources.
The study and the eligibility criteria developed by the implementing agency will be submitted to
the CCU as components of the Plans of Action for MPAs.
c). Participation process with affected people
The implementation agency will convene a process of consultation with all stakeholders affected
by the establishment of the protected area22. The process shall be designed to ensure that all
people who qualify in terms of the eligibility criteria cited above have the opportunity to
participate effectively.
The consultation process will address the following issues, amongst others:
*    The boundaries of the protected area;
*    The terms of the protected area 23;
22 In any event public consultation is required by the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act
23 For example the Marine Living Resources Act of 1998 enables the Minister, after consultation with the
Consultative Advisory Forum, to make exemptions for classes of people, or particular activities within an
MPA
46



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Measures to off-set or mitigate any possible negative impact created by the declaration or
enforcement of a protected area on the livelihoods of people who qualify in terms of the
eligibility criteria established in terms of section 4.1; and,
*   An account of how these measures will be funded, who will be responsible for
implementing them, who will qualify for assistance, and how the effectiveness of these
measures will be monitored and adapted over time.
d). Reporting
The implementing agency will submit a report of the outcome of the consultative process and its
recommendations to the CCU of as a component of the Plan of Action of the MPA. This report
will address the basic requirements of OP 4.12, in that it will set out whether and to what extent,
the MPA creates adverse impacts on the livelihoods of current users, how users have been
consulted and involved in the design of the MPA, and the measures adopted to mitigate any
possible adverse impacts of the MPA on local livelihoods. It will also set out the budgetary
implications of any mitigation activities, and how these will be met within the budget of the
project and the MPA.
e). Establishment of grievance procedure for the PF
The Executing Agency shall, when advertising the establishment of the proposed MPA, and
convening the consultation process, make copies of the Process Framework available, and
inform stakeholders of their rights to lodge complaints, if, in their view, the terms of the Process
Framework are breached, they have been unfairly excluded in terms of the eligibility criteria, or
they assert that the terms and benefits proposed do not adequately mitigate negative effects on
their livelihoods created by the MPA.
A broad grievance framework for the RPF set out in section 6 will apply to the Process
Framework as well. Essentially this framework proposes that the first port of call for addressing
grievances will be the Executing Agency. If they cannot be resolved at this level outside
assistance will be sort, which could result in the grievance being resolved through facilitation,
mediation or arbitration. This will be accommodated under component 4 of the Program. When
this is done issues that affect the workability of this grievance framework will be addressed.
Such issues include - how the institutions and all parties will be bound by arbitration (if they are
not bound the Arbitration Act does not apply); how to establish a small core group (2 or 3) of
mediators/arbitrators so as to ensure that these outsiders are people who understand the
project and can reach decisions quickly; and how to ensure that grievances aren't misused by
those engaging in illegal activities (such as poaching in MPA) will be addressed. Unresolved
grievances will be included in the Plan of Action report submitted to the World Bank for each
MPA.
Stakeholders shall also be informed about procedures for lodging grievances concerning the
ongoing implementation of projects aimed at generating alternative sources of income for
people negatively affected by the MPA, after the establishment of the MPA. The C.A.P.E. CCU
will include a report of grievances that is provided by the relevant Executing Agency, together
47



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
with a report on measures adopted to address them, in its 6 monthly progress reports to the
Bank. The Executing Agency will copy all complaints to the Monitoring and Evaluation
component of the C.A.P.E. Program.
1). Monitoring and Evaluation for the PF
The Executing Agencies will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of activities set out in
the RPF, PF, RAP and POA as well as end of project assessment taking into account baseline
conditions and resettlement monitoring. The Bank is responsible for supervision24. The
arrangements for monitoring will be incorporated into the overall monitoring and reporting
system for the C.A.P.E. Program. M&E proposals are set out in section 9 below.
g). Plan of Action
Section 31 of OP 4.12 requires that a Plan of Action be submitted to the Bank for each PA
during project implementation before the proposed restriction on access to protected areas is
enforced.
This Plan of Action should include:
*    A study of pre-existing patterns of use and access to resources in the protected area, set
out in a) above;
*    A report on the consultative process around the boundaries, terms and benefits of the PA,
set out in section c) above;
*    A report on grievances received and attempts to resolve them, as set out in e) above; and
*    An account of the measures to assist "displaced persons" and the arrangements for their
implementation.
24 OP4.12, section 24
48



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
5 Implementation arrangements for RPF and PF
This section sets out the following as they apply to the RPF and PF processes for the C.A.P.E.
Program:
*   Grievance procedures;
*   Organisational elements, institutional capacity and commitments;
*    Monitoring, evaluation and reporting; and,
*    Funding arrangements.
5.1  Grievance redress mechanisms
Where affected people have grievances about either the process or decisions taken that affect
them, they need some mechanism through which this can be heard, processed and a decision
taken to resolve the problem. The grievance mechanism needs to be able to make a distinction
between different types of grievances and how they get addressed, be fair, speedy and cost
efficient. The normal grievance mechanisms used in labour for staff disputes, where there is a
gradual escalation of the dispute through layers of management to a final decision by a court is
not seen as appropriate as it will be both costly, time consuming and difficult for the aggrieved
community party to access in terms of their time and resources.
If a dispute cannot be resolved amongst the parties it may be necessary to bring in an external
facilitator/ mediator to assist with dispute resolution. An alternative approach would be to involve
the relevant Project Steering Committee or the CCU. These options are not favoured.
Committees often don't have the necessary time to address such issues as they are comprised
of people with a myriad of other responsibilities and committees bring their own dynamics to
bear. There is no line management accountability between the Program Management Units
(PMU) of the various Executing Agencies and the CCU. Referring disputes not resolved by the
PMU to the CCU would thus be inappropriate. The CCU's role should be linked to their
monitoring role, so that dispute trends can be picked up and preventative interventions (such as
task team investigation & recommendation) made.
Experience in South Africa with development projects is that poor, marginalized and under-
resourced rural communities that don't have strong community organisations can experience
many intra-community conflicts. These can have a debilitating effect stalling project progress. In
such cases it may also be wise to bring in an external facilitator to assist with dispute resolution.
A broad grievance framework for the RPF is set out in Fig 1. below. Essentially this framework
proposes that the first port of call for addressing grievances will be the Executing Agency. If they
cannot be resolved at this level outside assistance will be sought, which could result in the
grievance being resolved through facilitation, mediation or arbitration. To ensure that the
grievance mechanism is pragmatic and efficient it will be further developed by C.A.P.E. This will
be accommodated under component 4 of the Program. When this is done issues that affect the
49



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
workability of this grievance framework will be addressed. Such issues include - how the
institutions and all parties will be bound by arbitration; creation of a panel (2 or 3) of preferred
mediators/arbitrators who become familiar with the Program, thus facilitating speedy decision
making; and how to ensure that the grievance procedure is not misused by those engaging in
illegal activities (such as poaching in MPA).
50



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Figure 1: Grievance Framework
Grievance lodged with head of
PMU of Executing Agency who
involves appropriate staff.
Informs CCU monitoring officer.                Grievance & resolution
Decide if it is an internal                 reported as part of monitoring
community dispute then                     . system to CCU
external facilitator is used.  Grievance
Otherwise resolve internally.  resolved
Time periods for resolution set
& agreed.
Grievance
not resolved
External person sifts
disputes into a) not caused
by project, b) requires
mediation, c) requires                 *     Grievance & resolution
arbitration. Obtain                      reported as part of monitoring
agreement of parties for    Grievance            system to CCU
mediation or arbitration  resolved through      No Further action
that they will be bound to  a) mediation, or
outcome. Appoint        b) arbitration
mediator/arbitrator.
5.2 Organisational elements, institutional capacity and commitments
Ultimate responsibility for ensuring that this safeguard is applied where necessary rests with the
Executing Agencies. Operational responsibility also rests with the Executing Agency, and in
particular the relevant Project Management Unit (PMU) who will assign responsibilities to
relevant staff as necessary. The CCU could assist with procedures, liaison, coordination and
support.
All the institutions involved in the C.A.P.E. Program that are recipients of the GEF grant have
committed themselves to the implementation of this RPF and Process Framework. As the extent
of possible resettlement is presently unknown it is not appropriate to undertake an
organisational capacity assessment or to make recommendations regarding the need for
additional capacity. It has been noted elsewhere in this document that the contracting of service
51



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
providers to support the process such as for developing RAPs, for monitoring and for
addressing specific grievances may be required.
The process of undertaking RAPs/Plans of Action and deciding on them will be undertaken by
existing structures so as to align as closely as possible with the existing institutional set-up
within the C.A.P.E. Program. The responsibilities of the various institutions are provided below:
Table 7: Responsibility for implementing this safeguard policy
Responsibility                                 Proposed structure
1. Inclusion of RAP/Plan of Action into existing planning Executing Agency
process, with particular attention to the baseline socio- CCU to advise
economic survey
2. Identification of whether a RAP/Plan of Action is Executing Agency
needed or not and decision to undertake it. If a voluntary  Executing Agency to inform CCU and World
resettlement issue arises then independent verification of Bank of RAP/Plan of Action at project
free choice is needed.                         inception.
CCU and World Bank to advise on
development of RAPs
3. Development of RAP/Plan of Action, ensuring proper Executing Agency
consultation with affected people
4. Approval of RAP/Plan of Action or approval of Executing Agency
evidence showing free choice in voluntary resettlement World Bank
projects                                       CCU to approve & document as part of
ongoing monitoring function
5. Routine project implementation management and  Executing Agency
monitoring of RAP/Plan of Action
6. High level review of compliance with RPF and  World Bank
Process Framework                              CCU
7. Funding arrangements & budget               Executing Agency
8. Ultimate responsibility                     C.A.P.E. CCC
5.3 Monitoring, evaluation and reporting
The Executing Agencies and CCU are responsible for monitoring and evaluation of activities set
out in the RPF, Process Framework and RAP/POA as well as end of project assessment taking
into account baseline conditions and resettlement monitoring, while the Bank is responsible for
25
supervision . It is difficult to assess risk because it is not possible now to assess the extent of
resettlement that could occur within the C.A.P.E. Program and how the many institutions
involved will act during implementation. C.A.P.E.'s existing commitment to benefiting people and
their specific commitment to this RPF, and in fact to addressing any resettlement issues
(voluntary or involuntary) to the benefit of the affected people, lowers the risk considerably.
25 OP4.12, section 24
52



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
The arrangements for monitoring will be incorporated into the overall monitoring and reporting
system for the C.A.P.E. Program. Component 4 deals with Program Co-ordination,
Management and Monitoring. On monitoring and evaluation the project document says
"Monitoring and evaluation of Program activities and impacts will be undertaken by the CCU,
and will be subject to periodic review by the Bank and by key stakeholders of the C.A.P.E.
Program. The CCU will establish Program management, monitoring and evaluation procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and will furnish the Bank with biannual Program progress reports,
together with work Programs inclusive of detailed monitoring indicators for the following six-
month period. Key performance indicators proposed for monitoring are in Annex 1 (Logical
Framework). Arrangements for monitoring will be detailed and agreed upon during appraisal
and recorded in the minutes of negotiation. In addition, a mid-term evaluation will be prepared at
the end of the third year of the Program. Lessons learned from implementation of Program
activities will be recorded in a report prepared by the NBI with the assistance of the CCU"(p.14).
Clearly reporting on, monitoring and evaluating resettlement should be incorporated into this
system. Although the details of this still need to be designed, the following will be considered for
incorporation into this system:
1. The reporting system should be able to:
*    Alert Executing Agency and the CCU to issues that might trigger this safeguard;
*    Provide timely information about the RAP/POA, negotiation process and
implementation;
*    Report any grievances that require resolution;
*    Document timely completion of project resettlement obligations; and,
*    Report on the implementation of any resettlement aspects that form part of contractual
agreements with concessionaires and private landowners.
2. Three general indicators that can be used to evaluate the success of resettlement plans
are:
*   Affected individuals, households, and communities have benefited, and at the very
least have maintained their pre-project standard of living;
*    The local communities remain supportive of the project; and,
*    The absence or prevalence of conflicts.
3. For the above to be possible a comprehensive database of the baseline socio-economic
information collected for the purposes of developing a RAP/POA will be essential so that
there is something to measure against
In addition to the above measures the C.A.P.E. CCU will review compliance with the RPF and
Process Framework, and implementation of RAPs/POA, as part of World Bank's bi-annual
World Bank supervision missions.
53



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
The independent report will be presented to the CCU and Executing Agencies for comment and
adaptation before being presented by the service providers to the CCC. Hereafter the report will
be released into the public domain being sent out to relevant stakeholders on the C.A.P.E.
Programs' database and posting on the C.A.P.E. website. None of C.A.P.E.'s structures will
have the right to either alter the service provider's findings or withhold the report from the public.
The intention of this is to allow for scrutiny independent of any of the interest groups within the
C.A.P.E. Program.
5.4 Funding arrangements
OP4.12 requires that the RPF and Process Framework provide a description for funding
resettlement, including the preparation and review of cost estimates, flow of funds and
contingency arrangements.
Executing Agencies will recognise costs associated with RAPs and POAs as a part of their core
responsibilities.
Overall costs of resettlement cannot be determined at this stage as it is not possible to estimate
the likely number of people who may be affected since the details of the zone of impact have
not yet been identified. The budget should be determined early during the RAP/POA stage
when the socio-economic study is being undertaken. This should happen when the zone of
impact is known, and after the conclusion of the site-specific socio-economic study, information
on specific impacts, individual and household incomes and numbers of affected people and
other demographic data would be available, thus facilitating the preparation of a detailed and
accurate budget.
The Executing Agencies are responsible for raising the finance and preparing the budget. A
commitment to this effect will be incorporated into the grant agreement. GEF funds will not be
used for developing RAPs/POA or monitoring or implementing.
An indication of the kind of items that could need to be budgeted for (not all items will be
applicable in all cases) is provided in the table below.
54



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Table 8: Budget Items
Item                               Comment
1. Screening  of social issues to  Cost should be able to be accommodated within existing
determine if safeguard is triggered  planning processes that are already budgeted for.
2. Preparation of RAP/POA          Could be undertaken by existing staff or may involve
contracting of service provider. The socio-economic survey,
involving direct interaction and consultation with each affected
household & the subsequent negotiation of resettlement
options is probably the most time consuming aspect
3. Cost of resettlement options, could  This is likely to be the bulk of the budget. Some of this could
include:                           be accessed from other government Programs such as the
- Cost of providing suitable alternative  housing or land subsidy or from poverty alleviation funds. It
accommodation: could be on same farm  must be cautioned that commitment of budget from other
or elsewhere                       government departments is always subject to their own
- Cost of replacing jobs           procedures and indications of support from officials should not
-    Cost    of    restoration  of be interpreted as budgets being available. This would be
income/livelihoods                 assisted by Memoranda of Understanding being signed with
- If physical relation is required then  the relevant departments. Written decisions by the relevant
could involve the cost of relocation  decision-making  bodies  is required  as  evidence  of
expenses (transport, settling in time etc) commitment. Procedures for transfer of funds must also be
- Compensation for loss of assets that secured.
can't be accommodated within a
resettlement option (such as 10 year old
orchard)
4. Land acquisition cost           Likely to be the most costly item, and is usually determined by
market value (although some conservation agencies have a
policy of paying above market value as a way of incentivising
landowners).
5. Compensation for loss of access to This aspect will need to be agreed between executing
marine or terrestrial resources    agencies and the world Bank on a site specific basis once the
process framework is triggered by a particular activity.
6. Training, capacity building costs and  These costs are associated with empowering affected people
SME support Program                to take up the economic opportunities that should arise from
the project. It should not be assumed that one or two once-off
training courses will be sufficient for affected people to
establish SMEs, but rather a Program of support over a
number of years will be required. There are already budgets in
place for training and capacity building that may well be able
to accommodate this item.
7. Communication costs             Often lack of effective communication is the cause of conflicts.
It may be possible to accommodate this cost within existing
allocations for communications.
8. Monitoring costs                It may be possible to accommodate this cost within the
existing allocation for monitoring.
9. Grievance mechanism costs       These are costs associated with addressing grievances.
55



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
5.5 Public consultation and disclosure to date
Public consultation and disclosure is an important component of the development of the RPF
and Process Framework. The ESMF and RPF will be released for public input simultaneously.
The disclosure/ public participation process has comprised the following activities:
*    Distribution of the pre-draft document to representatives of key executing agencies
including SANParks, WCNCB, MCM, DEA&DP, Wilderness Foundation and DWAF.
These are all of the agencies who could be responsible for implementing the RPF;
*    A workshop with representatives of key executing agencies to assess appropriateness of
and buy in to the RPF and PF (30 September 2003);
*    Circulation of the revised pre draft documents (30 September - 21 October 2003);
*    Adjustments of pre draft documents (21 - 29 October 2003); and,
*    Disclosure to the World Bank (30 October 2003).
These activities will be followed by:
*    Placement of the draft RPF and ESMF, that have been cleared in principle by the World
Bank, in libraries across the CFR, and in electronic format on the C.A.P.E. website;
*    Notification to C.A.P.E. stakeholders of the availability of the draft ESMF and RPF/PF, and
inviting them to comment;
*    Provision of a minimum period of two weeks for comment;
*    Collation of comments and revision of the draft RPF as appropriate;
*    Submission to World Bank for final approval; and,
*    Release into public domain.
A list of individuals and institutions consulted during this process and comments received from
them are available from the CCU.
56



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
5.6 Implementation of the RPF and PF
The purpose of the C.A.P.E. RPF and PF is to provide a policy framework and procedural
safeguards that bind Executing Agencies and ensure compliance with OP4.12.
Subproject RAPs (that are consistent with the RPF), and POAs (that are consistent with the PF)
cannot be prepared for the C.A.P.E. Program at this stage as specific planning information is
not available and the nature and zone of potential impact has not been identified. This has been
agreed by the World Bank.
However, should OP4.12 be triggered as part of the implementation of the C.A.P.E. Program,
these documents will be submitted to the Bank for approval. In this regard, the principles,
organisational arrangements, design criteria and processes that are set out here will be applied
by the Executing Agencies to all subprojects that are prepared during Program implementation.
Wherever possible, and without altering the fact that they are procedural safeguards, these will
be integrated with existing planning processes of the Executing Agencies.
The process for the implementation of OP4.12 within the context of the C.A.P.E. Program is set
out in Figure 2.
57



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
C.A.P.E. ACTIVITY INITIATED
Figure 2: PROCESS FOR
IMPLEMENTATION OF
WB SAFEGUARD
POLICY OP4.12               SCREENING OF SOCIAL ISSUES
Nature of issue determined. Executing
Agency informs CCU & World Bank.
SAFEGUARD NOT TRIGGERED OR                       SAFEGUARD TRIGGERED
SUFFICIENT ACTION TAKEN TO         Where negative sociald int poen t    planimpact on:
A        pOID TRIGGERING                     a) livelihoods, b) income,
c) tenure security & accommodation
INVOLUNTARY TAKING              ACCESSISSUES
OF LAND (OP4.12 3a)              (OP4.12 3b)
RPF applies                   PF applies
No physical relocation involved, or  Many people affected or\
few people affected, or significant  imcipate    Affted to be   p
impacts not anticipated             significant\
ABBREVIATED RAP               FULL SCALE RAP                POA PREPARED
PREPARED                     PREPARED               (as integrated into project
(as integrated into project  (as integrated into project     planning processes)
planning processes)          planning processes)
|RAP/POA    APROVED
RAP IMPLEMENTED                POA IMPLEMENTED
OUTCOME:                       OUTCOME:
Affected people participate,  Affected people participate &
options identified and in at   efforts made to mitigate.
least equivalent situation
58



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
6 REFERENCES
*    C.A.P.E., November 1999, Socio-economic report: situation assessment & review, by Bev
Geach
*    C.A.P.E., January 2000, Sectoral Studies: Policy, Legal, Institutional, Financial, Social and
Economic Component by CSIR
*    C.A.P.E., Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development in the CFR Ecoregion
*    C.A.P.E., January 2003, Unleashing the potential of protected areas by James Jackelman
*    C.A.P.E., 7 February 2003, Project Concept Document
*    C.A.P.E., February 2003, Land Use Planning & Decision Support by Chris Clarke
*    C.A.P.E., March 2003, Marine and Coastal by Clark, Atkinson, Attwood and Bacela
*    C.A.P.E., March 2003, Freshwater and Watersheds by Ian MacDonald & others
*    C.A.P.E., April 2003, Lowlands by Mandy Barnett
*    C.A.P.E., April 2003, Participatory Approach by David Shandler
*    Kingdom of Swaziland, September 2003, Energising Rural Transformation Project
Resettlement Policy Framework
*    SANParks, August 2003, Resettlement Policy Framework and associated Resettlement
Action Plans for year 1 of implementation of the Greater Addo Elephant National Park
Project
*    World Bank, January 1999, OP 4.01 Environmental Assessments
*    World Bank, January 1999, BP 4.01 Environmental Assessments
*    World Bank, December 2001, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
*    World Bank, December 2001, BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
*    World Bank, December 2001, OP 4.12 Annex A
59



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: C.A.P.E. RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK AND PROCESS
FRAMEWORK: SUMMARY
This Annexure summarises the C.A.P.E. RPF and PF, which provide a policy framework and
procedural safeguards that bind executing agencies and ensure compliance with OP4.12. It is
not possible to determine the possible extent or zone of impact of the various sub-projects or
sub-components at this stage. In terms of OP4.12, the World Bank has indicated that an RPF
will suffice and that RAPs and POAs are not needed at this stage of the Program.
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
In terms of the requirements of OP4.12, the RPF for C.A.P.E. sets out the following:
*   Eligibility criteria for defining categories of potentially affected people;
*   Policy Principles;
Methods of valuing affected assets and developing viable options; and
*   RAP preparation process and contents, including both abbreviated and full RAPs.
a) Eligibility criteria
Where involuntary resettlement/loss of access results from activities associated with the
C.A.P.E. Program in terms of the RPF, the following categories of potentially affected people
may qualify for resettlement compensation:
*   Landowners, including private individuals, corporates, institutions and the State
*   Farm occupiers living on private and state land, including the employed, the unemployed
and those with different types of ESTA rights;
*   Land users, including people who use land or resources they don't own such as those with
stock or those who harvest indigenous plants. This does NOT include someone
opportunistically invading a site after disclosure of the project (in SA law the Prevention of
Illegal and Unlawful Occupation Act provides for the eviction of such people). It also would
not protect criminal activity26 such as the poaching experienced in some of the marine
areas27;
Restitution claimants;
Users of marine resources; and,
Individuals and companies providing support services to commercial forestry.
b) RPF Policy Principles
The RPF is premised on the following principles, which all C.A.P.E. executing agencies will
commit to implementing:
*   Avoid or minimise triggering this safeguard through encouraging landowner and occupier
willingness;
*   Comply with both letter and spirit of the law;
26 The distinction between unlawful and criminal should be understood. Established patterns of occupation and use that are not
necessarily lawful would fall within the scope of the safeguard. However the safeguard includes a test of reasonableness, and it
cannot reasonably be expected to protect criminal activities. Where the distinction is relevant in a particular project the RAPs and
POA should include a discussion of the circumstances, and explain why certain users have been treated differently.
27 World Bank, Involuntary Resettlement, Key Concepts, as applied to C.A.P.E.
60



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Ensure genuine consultation and participation take place;
Undertake baseline socio-economic survey/s and integrate RAPS into existing planning
processes;
Apply the RPF to all contractual arrangements that could have social impacts;
Develop resettlement options that place affected people in at least an equivalent but
preferably better situation than they were in prior to involuntary resettlement/loss of
access;
Develop options in conjunction with the affected households and then allow them to choose
between options. Empower affected people to actively participate in both the development
of options and negotiations around their choice. In this regard, inform them of other
instances where this issue has been addressed and the potential long-term impacts of their
choices;
Uphold principles of fairness and reasonableness. Encourage affected people to act
reasonably so that win-win-win solutions can be found;
Determine budgets as an upfront project cost; and
* Cater for vulnerable populations.
c) Asset valuation and option development
Options will be developed in conjunction with the affected households and, instead of a
mathematical application of standard compensation packages based on a valuation of assets, an
approach will be used where practical and implementable options that improve the position that
people presently live in, are developed for the whole project. These options will contain various
elements, all of which will be at least equivalent to the affected person's existing situation, but
cumulatively will attempt to place people in a better situation. The method of valuing assets is
set out in the RPF.
d) RAP preparation: Proposed process
The key components of a full/extensive RAP are as follows:
1.    Description of project & impacts;
2.    Extensive socio-economic survey/s;
3.    Legal framework;
4.    Institutional framework;
5.    Eligibility criteria;
6.    Resettlement options & choices made by the affected;
7.    Valuation & compensation;
8.    Participation process with affected people;
9.    Grievance mechanisms;
10.   Implementation arrangements: who responsible, timetable, and schedule;
11.   Budget; and,
12.   Monitoring & evaluation mechanisms.
Where the impacts associated with the C.A.P.E. Program activities that trigger OP4.12 are
expected to be minor (i.e. few people are involved and/ or impacts are not predicted to be
significant), an abbreviated RAP must be prepared in accordance with C.A.P.E.'s RPF.
The key components of an abbreviated RAP are as follows (note that points 3,4,6 and 7 above
are omitted in this process):
Description of project & impacts;
61



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
*  Socio-economic survey;
*   Eligibility criteria;
Participation process with affected people;
Grievance mechanisms;
Resettlement options & choices made by the affected;
Implementation arrangements: who responsible, timetable;
Budget; and
Monitoring & evaluation mechanisms.
Process Framework (PF) and Plan of Action (POA)
The Process Framework set out below will be followed in all Marine Protected Areas and
Terrestrial Protected Areas where activities associated with the C.A.P.E. Program could cause
restriction of access rights to resources. The PF will generate the resettlement components of
the plans of action required by the Bank prior to the enforcement of protected area restrictions.
a) Proposed process for a site specific PF, including a POA
The PF and POA process is triggered once it is clear in a specific case that the PF applies and a
plan of how to deal with the details of the matter is needed. It is always a requirement where
access will be restricted (see Figure 2).
In order to comply with OP4.12, a site-specific PF should contain the following elements:
Identification of stakeholders;
Establishment of patterns of past and current use of resources within the protected area
that is in question, notably an MPA;
*   Determination of eligibility criteria;
*  Consultation with stakeholders;
*  Grievance Procedures;
*  A monitoring and evaluation process.
In addition, a POA that sets out the findings of the above and explains efforts undertaken
regarding mitigation must be prepared. Note that compensation is not a requirement of the PF/
POA process.
Implementation arrangements for RPF and Process Framework
This section sets out the following as they apply to the RPF and PF processes for C.A.P.E.:
Organisational elements, institutional capacity and commitments;
Grievance Procedures;
Monitoring, evaluation and reporting; and,
Funding arrangements.
Organisational elements, institutional capacity and commitment
All executing agencies receiving funds from the GEF as part of the GEF investment to C.A.P.E.
have committed themselves to the implementation of the RPF and Process Framework.
62



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Ultimate responsibility for ensuring that this safeguard is applied where necessary rests with the
Executing Agencies. Operational responsibility also rests with each Executing Agency, and in
particular the relevant Project Management Unit (PMU) who will assign responsibilities to
relevant staff as necessary.
Responsibility                           Proposed structure
1. Inclusion of RAP/Plan of Action into existing  Executing Agency
planning process, with particular attention to  CCU to advise
the baseline socio-economic survey
2. Identification of whether a RAP/Plan of  Executing Agency
Action is needed or not and decision to  Executing Agency to inform CCU and World
undertake it. If a voluntary resettlement issue  Bank of RAP/Plan of Action at project inception.
arises then independent verification of free  CCU and World Bank to advise on development
choice is needed.                        of RAPs
3. Development of RAP/Plan of Action,    Executing Agency
ensuring proper consultation with affected
people
4. Approval of RAP/Plan of Action or approval  Executing Agency
of evidence showing free choice in voluntary  World Bank
resettlement projects                    CCU to approve & document as part of ongoing
monitoring function
5. Routine project implementation        Executing Agency
management and monitoring of RAP/Plan of
Action
6. High level review of compliance with RPF  World Bank
and Process Framework                    CCU
7. Funding arrangements & budget         Executing Agency
8. Ultimate responsibility               C.A.P.E. CCC
Grievance redress mechanism
All grievances relating to the RPF and RAPs, and PF and POAs should initially be addressed to
the relevant Executing Agency. A clear process for this should be established and
communicated to affected stakeholders. If grievances cannot be resolved at this level, outside
assistance may be sought by any party with an interest in the matter. This could result in the
grievance being resolved through facilitation, mediation or arbitration. The procedure to be
followed in addressing any grievance is summarised in Fig 1 below.
63



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Figure 1: Grievance Framework
Grievance lodged with head of
PMU of Executing Agency who
involves appropriate staff.
Informs CCU monitoring officer.                Grievance & resolution
Decide if it is an internal                 reported as part of monitoring
community dispute then                      system to CCU
external facilitator is used.  Grievance
Otherwise resolve internally.  resolved
Time periods for resolution set
& agreed.
Grievance
not resolved
External person sifts
disputes into a) not caused
by project, b) requires
mediation, c) requires                 *     Grievance & resolution
arbitration. Obtain                      reported as part of monitoring
agreement of parties for    Grievance            system to CCU
mediation or arbitration  resolved through      No Further action
that they will be bound to  a) mediation, or
outcome. Appoint        b) arbitration
mediator/arbitrator.
Monitoring and reporting for the RPF and the Process Framework
The Executing Agencies and the CCU will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of
activities set out in the RPF, PF, RAP and POA, as well as end of project assessment. This
should take into account baseline conditions and resettlement monitoring. The Bank will be
responsible for supervision28.
The arrangements for monitoring compliance with the RPF/ PF will be incorporated into the
overall monitoring and reporting system for C.A.P.E., which will comply with that of the UNDP
and World Bank, as per the conditions of the grant agreement. As part of this process,
compliance with the RPF and PF and associated RAPS and POAs should be verified through
independent review at least on a bi-annual basis.
28 OP4.12, section 24
64



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
Funding arrangements
The overall potential costs of resettlement cannot be determined at this stage of the Program
as the details of the zone of impact have not yet been identified, and it is therefore not possible
to estimate the number of people who may be affected.
It follows that budget for resettlement should be determined early during the RAP/POA stage
when the results of the socio-economic study are known, and information on specific impacts,
individual and household incomes and numbers of affected people and other demographic data
is available
The Executing Agencies will be responsible for raising the finance and preparing the budgets
necessary for producing and implementing RAPS and POAs. A commitment to this effect will be
incorporated into the grant agreement. GEF funds will not be used for developing RAPs/POA or
monitoring or implementing.
Implementation of OP4.12
The purpose of the C.A.P.E. RPF and PF is to provide a policy framework and procedural
safeguards that bind executing agencies and ensure compliance with OP4.12. As indicated
earlier, sub-project RAPs (consistent with the RPF), and POAs (consistent with the PF), cannot
be prepared for C.A.P.E. at this stage. However, should OP4.12 be triggered as part of the
implementation of C.A.P.E., relevant sub-project RAPs and POAs will be submitted to the Bank
for approval.
In this regard, the principles, organisational arrangements, design criteria and processes set out
here will be applied by C.A.P.E. executing agencies to all sub-projects prepared during Program
implementation.
Wherever possible, and without altering the fact that they are procedural safeguards, these will
be integrated with existing planning processes of the executing agencies.
The process for the implementation of OP4.12 within the context of C.A.P.E. is set out in Figure
2 below.
65



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
C.A.P.E. ACTIVITY INITIATED
Figure 2: PROCESS FOR
IMPLEMENTATION OF
WB SAFEGUARD
POLICY OP4.12               SCREENING OF SOCIAL ISSUES
Nature of issue determined. Executing
Agency informs CCU & World Bank.
SAFEGUARD NOT TRIGGERED OR                       SAFEGUARD TRIGGERED
SUFFICIENT ACTION TAKEN TO          Where negative social impact identified that could impact on:
AVOID TRIGGERING                             a) livelihoods, b) income,
c) tenure security & accommodation
INVOLUNTARY TAKING               ACCESS ISSUES
OF LAND (OP4.12 3a)               (OP4.12 3b)
RPF applies                   PF applies
No physical relocation involved, or  Many people affected or
few people affected, or significant  impacts anticipated to be
impacts not anticipated             significant
ABBREVIATED RAP                FULL SCALE RAP               POA PREPARED
PREPARED                     PREPARED               (as integrated into project
(as integrated into project  (as integrated into project      planning processes)
planning processes)          planning processes)
RAP/POA APPROVED
RAP IMPLEMENTED                POA IMPLEMENTED
OUTCOME:                       OUTCOME:
Affected people participate,  Affected people participate &
options identified and in at    efforts made to mitigate.
least equivalent situation
66



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
ANNEX B
MAPS ILLUSTRATING THE AREAS ASSOCIATED WITH PROPOSED C.A.P.E.
ACTIVITIES
67



Unleashing the Potential of Protected Areas - Component 4
Olifants \     [   Doring River                               f            ~       
Esttiary         l         Cederberg
a-Reserve
Groot-Berg                                                                    >vtff
Rivier Estuaiy fi_\_ 
R   Q  )                 f               J          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Baviaanskloof                          ;
-  \,   7                                  /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Mega-Reserve                          :
0)~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
West Coast 2
IVPA       t  West Coast Biosphere Reserve                         Keurboo
,,9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~~~~~~F                   Ck1 !r
*  Lourens Estuary                  QtC)
Cape Pi-ninstilaGurtRv
Nati.cnal Paik-          Kogelberg Biosphere                 Garden Route PA
Kogelberg MPA /    Heuringnes Riv
Palrriet River
Hiuningnes Estuary
Legend                                                                            ScaleU 1 3 348 902  N
Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve   Cape Peninsula National Park   Biosphere Reserves                               T M21)7998 .hnt
,   .~                                                                        0  15 30  60  90  120 KIornetersTe @21)-W8930m
:...JCederberg Mega-Reserve  Garden Route Conservation Initiative
0   Estuaries                Rivers



Identifying and Securing Terrestrial Biodiversity in Key Sites - Component 5
Niewoudtville
Cederberg
Northe S                    Mega-Reserve
Sandveld tgL3,o
Saldanha                                                                                                                                   0 ffC
P   ernsu      ulla                            d     
p
Z  I Z   \  A   >                                   @         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baviaanskloof       0D
West Coast n    l Swartla   Renosterveld
Biosplhere Reserve UprBed 
West Coas r     Q    )       River Valley                                                                    C3 C
CD
{rCa     eFlt 5O
%  y  l  Overberg      |  ~~~~~River,sdae           Garden Route 
Soutsh Eastern Lowlands
gulhas Biodiversity
Initiative
Scale: 1 3348 902     N      WsmeNeturerienSoar
aegend           Mega-Reserve
F   1Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve       S   Fine-Scale Planning Initiatives        30 15 0   30     9Q FI1ometers     x tl77 903
F   Cederberg Mega-Reserve            _   West Coast Biosphere Reserve                                                    _   _    _



Integrating Biodiversity Concerns into Watershed Management - Component 6
. J  < -L-SOQORN
Olifdflt-- 
Estuary 
Giout-Berg '0
Rivier Estuaary                                                                                                                  !T
GOU ITZ
~~'*sto        w111liito   0
Cr,
Lo   sEaualuy          Gouritz river-                                 -
Goukamma     Keurboornis
Kogelbeig Biosphere Resev  sudge RIV
Heiningnes Estuary
Legend                                                                             Scale 1 3 348 2
Water Management Areas (WMA's)
O   Estuaries            BERG                  GOURITZ                        o 15 3     J   1Mmeters5
O   Centre of Excellence                    _  LOWER ORANGE
-  RiversBREEDE-                     LOWER ORANGE                                               _     _   _   __..t
Rivers               BREEr _FS O S I M____-__r______
Biosphere Reserve    FISH TO TSITSIKAMMA    OLIFANTS/DOORN



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
ANNEX C
BIODIVERSITY VALUE OF THE AREA
The Cape Floristic Region (CFR). It is the smallest (ninety thousand square kilometers) of the
world six floral kingdom (1,9 % of all the world plants), one of the twenty five biodiversity
hotspots (where exceptional concentrations of endemic species are undergoing exceptional loss
of habitat) for conservation priority and among those hotspots, one where the endemic species
are concentrated in exceptionally small areas (31,6 endemic plants per 100 Km2 of hotspots).
Nature of the CFRS biodiversity. The rich biodiversity of the CFR is due to an extensive and
complex array of habitat types derived from topographical and climatic diversity in the region's
rugged mountains, fertile lowlands, semi-arid shrublands and coastal dunes. The dominant
vegetation of the CFR is fynbos (Afrikaans for " fine bush"). This fire-prone, sclerophyllous
scrubland covers just over 80 % of the land area and accounts for more than 7,000 of the 8
200 plants species identified in the CFR. In the lowlands, fynbos is replaced by renosterveld
(Afrikaans for "rhinoceros scrubs"), an Ericod scrubland, and costal dunes and thickets that
sustain an extremely high density of plants and animals threatened to extinction.
Distribution of the CFR's biodiversity. From a biodiversity point of view, the CFR is divided into a
hundred Broad Habitats Units (BHU). It is also unusual in that many of the processes that
sustain rare and endemic flora can occur in very small patches of remnant vegetation: It has
been determined that many localized fynbos endemic persist in patches of 4-15 hectares. This
land use planning work has been undertaken by the Institute for Plant Conservation of the
University of Cape Town (ucT) during the first two years of the Cape Strategy and Action Plan.
However, an analysis conducted at a finer scale (cadastral unit) in the Agulhas Plain (southern-
most portion of CFR covering and area of two thousand square kilometers) revealed that
conservation site selection requires fine scale information at the level of vegetation and
conservation units.
Biodiversity conservation status. Approximately, 20% of the region enjoys some form of
conservation status and nearly half of this area is protected in official nature reserves and
national parks. The majority of statutory conservation areas are protected under provincial
legislation in the Western and Eastern Cape provinces. Despite its extent and for the reasons
mentioned above, the protected area network does not adequately protect biodiversity or
natural processes in the CFR. Approximately 95% of all protected land is mountain habitats: only
4,5 % of the original lowland fynbos and only 0,6% of renosterveld is protected (31 % of the
lowlands BHU have already been transformed by agriculture, forestry and coastal urbanization):
Each of the units need to be partially conserved because biodiversity is irreplaceable.
Furthermore, parcels of smaller than 10 square kilometers or less account for approximately
25% of all protected land; while these reserves are important, they do not sustain the
ecological and evolutionary processes essential to the long-term persistence of the CFR' diverse
71



C.A.P.E. RPF November 2003
plant population (eg. Functional riparian ecosystems, migration corridors, natural fire cycles,
sand movements, and viable populations of herbivores).
Threats typology. From a threat point of view, the hundred BHU'S can be divided into two
categories of lands: the uplands that are threatened by alien invasive vegetation (woody
invader species) and fire and the lowlands that are threatened by agriculture and coastal
urbanisation expansion. In the first case, the threats diminish in-site biodiversity and reduce off-
site fresh water supply to downstream users (wild flower industry, deciduous fruit industry,
potable water consumers). In the second case, the threat diminish on-site biodiversity and may
be reduce off site pollination service to fruit farmers, when part of the land is still covered with
fynbos vegetation, traditional habitat for bees and other pollination insect
72



