                           GEF Project Brief
1. IDENTIFIERS:
PROJECT NUMBER:                     GE - P075997 (World Bank)
                                    SAF/02/G42/1G/03 (UNDP)
COUNTRY                             South Africa
PROJECT NAME:                       C.A.P.E. Biodiversity and Sustainable
                                    Development Project
DURATION:                           6 years (2004-2010)
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY:                World Bank (Lead), UNDP
EXECUTING AGENCY:                   National Botanical Institute

REQUESTING COUNTRY OR COUNTRIES: South Africa
GEF FOCAL AREA:                     Biodiversity
GEF PROGRAMMING FRAMEWORK:          OP#1,2,3,4
2. SUMMARY:

3. COSTS AND FINANCING (MILLION
$US):

GEF FINANCING:   PDF:                 US$ 0.32 million
                 Project GEF (WB)     US$ 9.00 million
                 Project GEF (UNDP)   US$ 2.00 million
CO-FINANCING:
                 Government & Private US$ 44.45 million

GEF TOTAL SUPPORT:                    US$ 11.32 million

TOTAL PROJECT COST:                   US$ 55.77 million
4. IA CONTACT
                                      CHRISTOPHE CREPIN
                                      SENIOR REGIONAL COORDINATOR
                                      AFRICA REGION
                                      WORLD BANK
                                      1818 H STREET, NW, J6-177
                                      WASHINGTON, DC 20043
                                      (202) 473-9727
                                      CCREPIN@WORLDBANK.ORG
5. EXECUTING AGENCY CONTACT           National Botanical Institute
                                      Kirstenbosch, Private Bag X7, Claremont,
                                      7735, South Africa
                                      Contact Person: Professor Brian Huntley
                                      Tel: +27 21 79 98800
                                      huntley@nbict.ac.za

                               C.A.P.E. BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
                           AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

A.      PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE

A1.     Project Development Objective: (see Annex 1)

1. Introduction :

The Government of South Africa (GoSA) has developed an innovative program to protect the
rich biological heritage of the Cape Floristic Region (CFR) The overall goal of this Program,
entitled Cape Action for People and the Environment (C.A.P.E. Program) is that the natural
environment of the Cape Floristic Region and adjacent marine environment will be effectively
conserved, restored wherever appropriate and will deliver significant benefits to the people in a
way that is embraced by local communities, endorsed by government and recognized
internationally. The basis for the C.A.P.E. Program intervention was laid by GEF support in
September 2000. In this period, the Cape Action Plan for the Environment, referred to as the
CAPE 2000 Strategy, was developed. It identified the key ecological patterns and processes
which need to be conserved in the CFR, the key threats and root causes of biodiversity losses
that need to be addressed in order to conserve the floral kingdom. This resulted in a spatial
plan identifying the areas which need to be conserved and a series of broad program activities
which need to be undertaken over a 20 year period. ( See Figure 1 below showing the extent of
the CFR ).Within the 20 year C.A.P.E., there will be 3 phases. Phase 1 and 2 will seek
incremental funding from the GEF. Phase 2 will seek lower levels of GEF resources and Phase 3
will be funded from domestic resources. Each phase of the program is designed as a relatively
discrete element generating defined global environmental benefits, as GEF support whilst key,
cannot be assured for subsequent phases.

GEF support to the first 6 years of the C.A.P.E. Program (Phase 1) includes a Critical Ecosystem
Partnership Fund allocation for civil society involvement, complemented by the C.A.P.E.
Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative and the subject of this application, the C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Development Project (the Project). (See Annex 9).

The Project is aimed at (i) establishing the systemic and institutional framework for effective
implementation of the C.A.P.E Program, and (ii) piloting and demonstrating site-based
interventions in the CFR, through bringing in an additional 4000km2 of protected area, to
establish the know-how for conservation required to give effect to the C.A.P.E. Program. There
are two Project Development Objectives requiring GEF support:

·   Project Development Objective 1: Capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation
    for mainstreaming biodiversity in the Cape Floristic Region into economic activities1.



1Mainstreaming in this context concerns the integration of biodiversity concerns into relevant sectoral or cross-sectoral plans,
programs and policies, resulting in situations where there is a simultaneous achievement of gains in biodiversity and gains in an
economic sector (the "win-win" scenario) (Pierce, et al., 2002).

·   Project Development Objective 2: Conservation of the Cape Floristic Region is enhanced
    through piloting and adapting site-based models for sustainable, effective management.

Seven project components have been developed to realise these Development Objectives:

            Component                                         Outcome

1. Institutional strengthening           Enhanced strategic alignment of conservation activities
                                         and increased capacity of relevant institutions for
                                         integrated bioregional conservation management in the
                                         CFR supported by comprehensive performance
                                         management and information management
2. Conservation education                Increased environmental awareness and committed
                                         action of people in the CFR contributes to biodiversity
                                         conservation
3. Establishing the foundations of the Market-based mechanisms for conservation management
  biodiversity economy                   are designed and micro enterprise opportunities for
                                         conservation related businesses established
4. Program co-ordination,                Enhanced management capacity, effective
 management and monitoring               communication and efficient adaptive management result
                                         in the integrated development and implementation of the
                                         Program as a whole
5. Unleashing the potential of           Protected areas contributing to priority targets for
protected areas                          conservation of the biodiversity of the CFR are
                                         consolidated or established; cost-effective management
                                         is sustained; tourism development plans are
                                         implemented; and stakeholders derive direct and indirect
                                         benefits
6. Identifying and securing              Biodiversity in five to six priority remnant patches in
 biodiversity in key sites               fragmented landscapes identified and secured in
                                         conjunction with civil society
7. Integrating biodiversity concerns     Biodiversity concerns are integrated into 5 watershed
 into watershed management               management agencies


Fig 1: Map of the Cape Floristic Region




                                                                                                2

2. Background to the project area

Biodiversity: South Africa is considered a megadiversity country, mainly due to its floristic
diversity and the level of endemism. South Africa's plant diversity is estimated at 23,420
species, representing 9% of the world total. Three of the world's 25 most threatened biodiversity
hotspots are found within the country's boundaries (Cape Floristic Region, Succulent Karoo and
Maputaland-Pondoland).

The Cape Floristic Region (CFR), which covers an area of 90,000 square kilometres, comprises
one of six Floral Kingdoms worldwide, and is uniquely the only floral kingdom to be located
entirely within the geographical confines of a single country. The CFR is exceptionally rich in
species diversity; in particular, the CFR is a storehouse of plant diversity (some 9,600 species of
vascular plants have been recorded). The flora is characterized by high endemism. The CFR is
accordingly, listed as a centre of plant diversity and endemism. Many species have highly
localized distributions. The floral inventory remains incomplete, and new species are continually
being recorded. Some 127 mammal species, 300 birds, 142 reptiles and 144 amphibians have
also been recorded. The region is considered an endemic bird area. The invertebrate fauna is also
very rich. Though less well documented than other taxonomic groups, it is notable for containing
an assemblage of ancient taxa that have largely been extirpated elsewhere. Many species are
highly specialized, having developed highly mutualistic relationships with plants, and like the
flora, tend to have very narrow range distributions.

Terrestrial habitat diversity is very high in the CFR. The natural environment includes semi-arid
ecosystems, with precipitation of less that 500 mm per annum, remnant temperate moist forests
along the eastern coast, and mountain ecosystems, with an altitude gradient ranging from sea
level to 2300 metres above sea level. Habitat diversity is a product of high topographical
variation, and substrate and climatic variation, and in turn influences alpha diversity.
Importantly, these landscapes are characterized by a high biogeographical turnover, manifest in
exceptional gamma diversity. Accordingly, seemingly similar ecosystems may have markedly
different characteristics.

The CFR's freshwater habitats harbor 19 species of fish, all endemic or near-endemic. Numerous
small estuarine areas provide refugia for unique species and for juvenile fish. The coastal area is
influenced by two oceanic currents, the warm Agulhas Current on the East Coast and the cold
Benguela Current on the West Coast, which have their confluence on the Agulhas Bank off Cape
Agulhas, the southernmost point in Africa. 11,000 species of marine animals have been recorded
in South African waters, of which 3,500 are endemic to the CFR occurring only between Cape
Point and Port Elizabeth. The marine fish fauna is very rich with some 400 species recorded
(including several notable endemics). The nutrient-rich Benguela Current, in particular, is noted
for its productive fisheries, although the Agulhas has greater absolute diversity. The mollusc
fauna and other benthic communities are also exceptionally rich. These communities are
characterized by a high rate of turnover across the seascape. These ecosystems further harbor an
array of rare fauna, including petrels, albatrosses, African Penguins and other sea birds,
important whale populations, fur seals and pelagic sharks.

Threats: The rich biodiversity of the CFR is under serious threat, as a result of the conversion of
natural habitat to permanent agriculture and to rangelands for cattle, sheep and ostriches,
inappropriate fire management, rapid and insensitive infrastructural development, over-
exploitation of marine resources and wild flowers, and infestation by alien species. Some
important habitats have been reduced by over 90% and less than 5% of land in the lowlands



                                                                                                 3

enjoys any conservation status. The region has therefore been identified as one of the world's
`hottest' biodiversity hotspots. There is an urgent unmet need to arrest these anthropogenic
pressures, through the creation of an enabling institutional co-ordination framework at the
regional and local levels, the creation of a biogeographically representative system of protected
areas, with different objectives and operated under various management arrangements, and
through mainstreaming conservation into the productive sectors, particularly agriculture, forestry
and fisheries. This will in turn require the creation of durable multi-stakeholder public-private
partnerships.

Social and economic context: The CFR spans the provinces of the Western Cape and Eastern
Cape and has an estimated population of approximately 5,2 million. Some 20-30% of the
population resides in rural areas, which harbor the greatest biodiversity, although many urban
communities also reside on or adjacent to biologically significant areas.

The population is dispersed across a wide area and is characterised by diversity in terms of
ethnicity, language and culture. Socio-economic disparities are marked, as are disparities in skills
and access to resources. There are sizable pockets of poverty existing throughout, in both rural
and urban areas. On the whole, the population of the Western Cape enjoys a greater degree of
human, economic and social development than their Eastern Cape counterparts, where
unemployment is estimated at 49%. Many poorer rural communities are dependent upon wild
resources, particularly marine resources and medicinal plants for subsistence purposes and
income generation.

A range of land tenure arrangements is in evidence, including large, medium and small free
holdings, state-owned land under different management arrangements, and a small proportion of
communal land. As much of the biological heritage rests on land outside the public land estate,
there is a need to develop tailor-made models encouraging conservation on private and
communal lands, accommodating the different cost-benefit and risk calculus of small, medium
and large landholders and the various communities.

Policy context: South Africa confronts numerous pressing social and economic problems, most
notably widespread poverty and socio-economic inequities. The country ratified the Convention
on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1995 and is moving to address its obligations under the
Convention within a larger framework for sustainable development that addresses the root causes
of biodiversity loss, including by ameliorating poverty, promoting the development of
livelihoods compatible with conservation objectives, and securing the participation of all sectors
of society in implementation. This strategy is consistent with the plan of action agreed by world
leaders at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD).

In 2001, GoSA approved a Medium-term GEF Project Priority Framework, identifying strategic
areas for GEF investment needed to catalyse a broad spectrum of environmental management
endeavours of high national priority. In 1997, a White Paper entitled Conservation and
Sustainable Use of South Africa's Biological Diversity was approved as government policy. The
White Paper informed the design of elements of the GEF Framework addressing biodiversity
conservation objectives. A key objective is to expand conservation activities to encompass whole
ecological landscapes, focusing on biomes by seeking to "integrate conservation objectives into
the productive sectors, strengthen land-use planning and monitoring functions, develop and


                                                                                                  4

support implementation of conservation models, establish new institutional and operational
mechanisms, and establish new conservation partnerships bridging the public and private
sectors"2. The CFR was identified as a top priority for GEF intervention, to secure these intended
outcomes through a holistic and long-term programmatic approach.

GEF Support: In 1998, the GEF provided US $12.3 million in funding through the World Bank
for the Project: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation (CPBCP). The project provided
funding to strengthen management of and extend the globally significant Cape Peninsula
National Park (CPNP), to part-capitalize an environmental trust fund, the Table Mountain Fund
(TMF), and to prepare the CAPE 2000 Strategy. These respective interventions have all
successfully attained their expected outcomes.

The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project in essence constitutes a pre-feasibility
phase and large site based investment for a broader initiative to protect the entire CFR. Its
success, attributed in large part to strong government commitment and stakeholder support,
provides a strong assurance that further conservation measures intended to realise the C.A.P.E.
vision have a high probability of success, both in terms of mitigating threats and engineering
sustainability. These fundamentals provide the conditions necessary for further GEF support, as
part of a larger package of financing, to secure biodiversity conservation objectives within the
CFR.

A2.     Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)

Outcome/Impact indicators3

These outcomes/triggers will be used to measure overall Project performance and to measure the
readiness of the Project to move to the next phase of the Project at the end of year 6.

1. C.A.P.E. implementing agencies meet all obligations of the C.A.P.E. MoU to align strategies
    workplans and budgets;
2. Over 4000km2 of new conservation estate will be added to existing protected areas by Year
    6. This will include three terrestrial protected areas, two marine protected areas, two estuaries
    and two freshwater systems;
3. Three new instruments will be developed and piloted to conserve the CFR (payment for
    ecological services, tax breaks and transfer of development rights);
4. Civil society stakeholders and individuals contribute actively to the achievement of the
    Project by committing to registered program activities;
5. Planning and development in five to six priority areas adequately addresses biodiversity
    concerns;
6. Agri and tourism businesses in hotspots adopt environmental best-practices to mitigate
    impacts on biodiversity;


2GEF Medium-Term Project Priority Framework 2000 [Para 2.11]


3All of these indicators assume a measured 2003 baseline and a six year timeframe



                                                                                                   5

7. The number of biodiversity-related jobs in specific Project intervention areas, increase by
    50%; and
8. The number of protected areas that are appropriately classified in terms of their biodiversity
    conservation objectives and effectively managed according to international standards,
    increases by 40%.


B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT


B1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 18995                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/23/99

A new CAS is currently being discussed with the Government of South Africa (GoSA), which
should be completed in the next fiscal year and will update the May 1999 document. The current
CAS has three main development objectives: (i) Promoting higher growth and employment while
maintaining macro-economic stability in order to generate sustained improvements in living
standards; (ii) Fostering social and environmental sustainability by reducing poverty and
inequality through investment in human and natural capital, accelerating and improving the
delivery of assets and services to the disadvantaged segments of society, and enhancing
environmental management; and (iii) Strengthening South Africa's constructive role in regional
development through investment projects, improved policy integration, and co-ordinated regional
relations.

The project will make some contribution towards the first objective, and a more significant
contribution towards the second objective. It will do this by: supporting sustainable economic
development in land-based and marine conservation, flower harvesting, and ecotourism sectors
of the economy. New instruments will be piloted for payment for ecological services. Small
works programs and procurement will target the small business sector and previously
disadvantaged communities in and around 15 proposed areas for conservation intervention.
Objective 2 will be met by strengthening conservation and integrated ecosystem management in
the 15 proposed sites for intervention as well through overall strengthening of conservation
planning and management, environmental education, environmental rehabilitation and
monitoring and evaluation systems across the CFR.

The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Country Co-operation Framework (Area 4)
makes provision for protecting the global environment though conservation and protection of
local and regional environments of global significance in partnership with the GEF. Community-
based resource management initiatives will be supported and national capacity will be
strengthened for co-management of natural resources including in the CFR. The Project is fully
consistent with meeting these objectives.

B1a. Global Operational Strategy/ Program objective addressed by the project

The CFR is noted as one of 25 global biodiversity hotspots, is the only floristic region to be
found within one country, contains high biodiversity and faces high level of threat in the



                                                                                                6

terrestrial (lowland and montane environments), marine and freshwater environment. The CFR
is located primarily in a semi-arid environment receiving approximately 750 mm of rain per
annum. The Project will support conservation of globally threatened biodiversity in a limited
number of protected areas, watersheds and sites in the terrestrial, marine and aquatic
components of the largely semi-arid and montane CFR. In addition it will support creation of
the enabling environment for these interventions, to be deepened and replicated elsewhere in
the region.

The Project is consistent with GEF Operational Strategies for Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystems
(OP 1), Coastal and Marine Freshwater Systems (OP 2), Forest Ecosystems (OP 3) and
Mountain Ecosystems (OP 4). South Africa ratified the Convention on Biodiversity (CBD) on
November 2, 1995 and completed a preliminary First African National Report to the Fourth
Conference of the Parties in January 1998. A National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan is
about to be prepared.

In supporting the creation of two clusters of marine protected areas the Project is supportive of
Johannesburg Summit outcomes of "restoring fish stocks by 2015, adopting ecosystem-wide
planning in the marine environment and arresting biodiversity losses by 2010". It also supports
the Millennium Development Goal of "Ensuring environmental sustainability" by enhancing
the extent of protected area to maintain biodiversity. The Project is consistent with the efforts
of GoSA to address national and global environmental and social priorities by supporting the
development of an enabling environment to reverse land degradation and conserve marine
resources.

B2.     Main sector issues and Government strategy

Key sectoral issues and government strategy:

Issue 1: Addressing poverty, inequality and unemployment: The apartheid legacy has left South
Africa with a number of major problems. The country has high levels of poverty and
unemployment and economic performance is too low to reduce these levels. There are
considerable differences in standards of living between provinces and population groups. South
Africa has an overall unemployment level of 29%. In the Western Cape the figure is 25%, the
lowest in the country, and it is 49% in the Eastern Cape. The Western Cape contains 10% of
South Africa's population but contributes 14% to the GDP. The Eastern Cape contains 16% of
population and contributes only 7,5% to the GDP. Agriculture, forestry and fishing contribute
between 4-6% to the national and provincial GDP and GGP respectively. HIV figures indicate a
national infection figure of 13%, with the Western Cape 4% and the Eastern Cape at 11%. Socio-
economic inequality was exacerbated by the so-called "homeland policy" which saw the creation
of two "homelands" in the Eastern Cape. The population of the Eastern Cape is predominantly
rural, whereas the Western Cape is largely urbanized.

Whilst socio-economic data indicates that inhabitants of the Western Cape are better off than the
national average, there are still at least 700,000 people living in absolute poverty in the Province
with the figure far higher for the Eastern Cape.




                                                                                                  7

Government strategy: At the macro-economic level, the GoSA has focused on creating sound
and stable macro-economic policy through containing inflation and government expenditure,
reducing subsidies to various sectors and supporting privatization and a stronger role for markets.
Whilst necessary, the lack of innovative micro-economic policy intervention has limited the
rewards which should have been reaped from a stable economy. Provincial government budgets
remain focused on providing social services including health care, education and social welfare.
These three sectors account for over 80% of the provincial budgets.

The Western Cape economy is relatively strong and diversified and market forces enable it to
grow at a rate above the national average. The Eastern Cape economy is far less diversified and
requires government intervention. For this reason the GoSA is supporting a major new industrial
harbor complex at Coega, and has also supported two Spatial Development Initiatives to
stimulate economic growth and exports. As tourism is a strong growth sector in both provinces,
the GoSA has increasingly been marketing and supporting it. The GoSA has developed an
Integrated Rural Development Strategy and small-scale farmer support programs. However,
implementation has not made significant progress. Reform in the fishing sector has focused on
providing quotas to small-scale fishers previously denied access to fishing rights.

On the poverty side, the GoSA has introduced the Working for Water and Poverty Relief
programs. They take the form of public works programs and pay workers $3 per day to
undertake environmental rehabilitation work.

Issue 2: Depletion of natural resources: South Africa contains three biodiversity hotspots and is
regarded as one of 17 mega-diversity countries. It contains over 9% of the world's plant and
animal species. The CFR alone contains over 1,100 red data species. The marine environment
contains a significant number of species with commercial potential. Over-exploitation of abalone
and crustacea through poaching now threatens these resources. Land-use changes brought about
through urban expansion, agricultural development and forestry threatens sensitive ecosystems.
Alternative land-use options including ecotourism are increasingly being pursued. The CFR falls
within a semi-arid ecosystem and existing water resources are coming under increasing pressure
for dam construction as water demand increases. Climate change is predicted to significantly
impact South Africa's ecosystems and to reduce availability of water over the forthcoming 20
year period.

Government strategy: The GoSA has signed and ratified all key international conventions
pertaining to the environment including CBD, Ramsar, Bonn, Basel, London Convention, CITES
and World Heritage Convention. Through hosting the WSSD in September 2002, South Africa
demonstrated its commitment to supporting sustainable development. Nationally, the
Constitution supports a person's right to sustainable development, though in practice this is
difficult to test. The National Environmental Management Act (1998) has been promulgated, a
Marine and Coastal Policy has been established, and new legislation for biodiversity
management (National Biodiversity Bill), management of protected areas (Protected Area's Bill)
and atmospheric pollution will be promulgated in 2003.

South Africa is currently substantially increasing the area under protected area management from
5,5% to a proposed target of 8%. Land purchase and novel land incorporation strategies



                                                                                                 8

involving communities and private sector are being pursued. In most cases, land purchase is not
the preferred option, but rather the involvement of existing landowners in contractual
arrangements for protection. Where purchases are undertaken, these do not employ GEF
resources but are the result of private sector investment, or the use of dedicated funds. The
support for protected area expansion has, however, been accompanied in some cases by reduced
financial support to operating costs for conservation. This has necessitated the outsourcing of
non-core operations, the formation of clusters of protected areas to rationalize and reduce
operating costs. South Africa has three World Heritage Sites and other applications for listing are
pending. New conservation initiatives are increasingly based on bioregional planning principles
as in the case of the C.A.P.E, Addo and Thicket biome Projects. Eight transfrontier conservation
and development projects are planned along South Africa's borders. Integrated Development
Planning legislation provides a strong entry point for supporting bioregional planning.
Importantly conservation initiatives are being undertaken in order to support socio-economic
development and people are now regarded as integral to conservation planning and development
processes.

Issue 3: Implementation of programs: The GoSA is facing a number of major transformation
challenges in the environment sector. The key challenge is to match the ambitious and
sophisticated level of policy development with implementation capability. The conservation
sector is characterized by leading edge conservation management knowledge, but business
planning, community development, ecotourism, marketing and mainstreaming skills have not
been as well developed. In recent years there has been a loss of skills from government
especially to the consulting sector and to private conservation operations. Overall the
conservation sector needs institutional reform in four key areas in order to meet policy
objectives. (i) there needs to be an expansion of the current baseline conservation skills.(ii) a new
set of market based mechanisms is required to stimulate market investment in the conservation of
natural capital in the marine and terrestrial environment. (iii) new institutional arrangements
including public private partnerships are required to implement new policy directions. (iv) new
skills and management systems are required in the private and public sector to implement new
and proposed policies.

Government strategy: The GoSA is currently in the process of designing the framework for more
ambitious institutional reform in the sector. Responsibilities for protected area management are
expected to be rationalized. With respect to C.A.P.E., the National Botanical Institute (NBI) is
expected to become the new National Biodiversity Institute which will be responsible for
advising on bioregional planning. The institutional arrangements for conservation agencies are
under review and could be rationalized through new biodiversity or protected area legislation. In
order to support C.A.P.E., Government and non-governmental organizations have established the
C.A.P.E. Co-ordination and the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committees. The Western Cape Nature
Conservation Board (WCNCB), South African National Parks (SANParks) and key NGOs have
aligned their operations to support C.A.P.E.. Government budgets from the Working for Water
and Poverty Relief fund as well as training budgets are being aligned to support the Program and
Project. The weakest area of reform relates to the cutting edge issue of mainstreaming
biodiversity and conservation into productive sectors of the economy through new market based
instruments and the development of capacity in this regard.




                                                                                                    9

B3.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices

Issue 1: Expansion of protected areas through market based mechanisms. New instruments and
models are required for protected area expansion, as over 90% of the expansion will take place
through options other than traditional purchase of land. The three new instruments to be
developed and piloted by the Project will include: (i) design and piloting of payment for
ecological services in watersheds. A system will be designed whereby landowners will be paid
by water users to keep their land free of alien vegetation thereby creating a water availability and
cost-reduction benefit to downstream water users. This activity will also target the use of
Working for Water Funds to provide the initial clearance of alien vegetation from watersheds
with follow on payment to landowners to keep catchments clear of alien vegetation. (ii) the
potential for applying tax rebates to farmers in threatened lowland vegetation areas to encourage
them not to plough up threatened and available land for agricultural use, will be investigated.
Thereafter, together with Ministry of Finance, a system of tax rebates will be designed,
implemented and monitored. (iii) the use of transferable development rights in threatened
lowland coastal vegetation areas will be investigated, designed and piloted at the municipal level.

Strategic choice: The key strategic issue has been to identify a limited number of potentially high
impact market based mechanisms which best address the multiplicity of key issues confronting
the Project as efficiently and effectively as possible. Since a key Project issue is how to bring
additional private sector land under conservation, the need to reduce the financial burden on the
state in increasing the area under protected area management, the need to rely far more on
markets to invest in the conservation estate and the need to mainstream conservation into the
productive sectors of the economy, the choice of potential instruments was deliberately selected
to be multi-purpose. Further, it was agreed that the instruments to be selected should already be
under implementation in other countries so that lessons learnt could be brought to South Africa.

Issue 2: Public-private partnerships for implementing Project activities: Conservation agencies
have limited financial and technical resources and business skills to execute the Project. Further,
they are not all represented in the same geographic locations. Overall the conservation agencies do,
however, have considerable conservation management ability. The private sector is well developed
in the region and is characterized by considerable entrepreneurship, access to strong financial
markets and access to best business practice through electronic and other forms of communication.
Many of the key threats to the CFR either emanate on private land or, in the case of the marine
environment, are caused by over-harvesting by inhabitants of the region. Therefore, the Project has
been designed at high level as a partnership between government, NGOs, conservation bodies and,
over time, the private sector to draw on the comparative strengths of each stakeholder group. At the
local level, local partnerships will be even more important to develop to implement the Project and
leverage in a new untapped layer of conservation managers and investment.

Strategic choice: The Project has deliberately been designed around a partnership model in order to
build a large and robust implementation capability in the CFR which draws on the comparative
advantages and collective capacity of institutions, landowners, private sector and stakeholders. The
NBI will focus on project management and will effectively support executing agencies to
implement the Project and to build their capacity.




                                                                                                  10

C.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY

C1.     Project components (See Annex 1)

The key role of the Project is to catalyse and drive the implementation of the C.A.P.E. Program
in Phase 1 by enhancing the policy and institutional framework for conservation in the CFR and
by undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations in selected biophysical, socio-
economic and institutional contexts. Although the scope of planned activities is broad, the
extensive preparation of the CAPE 2000 Strategy and the unprecedented alignment and support
of key executing partners renders the Project feasible. The planned activities will ensure that:

Development Objective 1:

Capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation for mainstreaming biodiversity in the
Cape Floristic Region into economic activities.

Development Objective 2:

Conservation of the Cape Floristic Region is enhanced through piloting and adapting models for
sustainable, effective management.

The Project has seven inter-related components that together will meet the Project's two
development objectives. To ensure that capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation
for mainstreaming biodiversity in the CRF into economic activities, there is a need for enabling
activities including (i) institutional strengthening; (ii) conservation education; (iii) establishing
foundations for the biodiversity economy; and (iv) program co-ordination, management and
monitoring. Enhancing the conservation of the CFR will be achieved, on the other hand, through
piloting and adapting models for sustainable, effective management in certain priority sites, by:
(v) unleashing the potential of priority protected areas; (vi) identifying and securing biodiversity
in key sites; and (vii) integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management. The design
of the Project has been to target activities at the most important issues, in agreement and with the
full support of the key executing agencies, and using an approach that will ensure the greatest
possible active participation of relevant stakeholders.

Component 1: Institutional strengthening. Since the adoption of the CAPE 2000 Strategy at
ministerial level, significant progress has been made to improve inter-agency co-operation and
address key institutional constraints. In the Project, this work must be continued to take
advantage of legal and institutional reform processes underway in South Africa and reduce
inefficiencies. It is essential to support the continued enhancement of interagency co-operation
and strategic planning by resolving institutional mandates, by assessing the needs of agencies to
meet their agreed mandates, and by developing and implementing a performance management
system across implementing agencies to ensure a focused approach in alignment with the CAPE
2000 Strategy. Specific strategic interventions to be undertaken, include: (i) enhancing
interagency co-operation and strategic planning for conservation management in the CFR,
including the five new catchment management agencies; (ii) building capacity for effective
conservation management, including enhanced capacity to involve people actively; (iii)



                                                                                                   11

appraising and developing strategies for financial sustainability across the suite of executing
agencies; and (iv) establishing a shared and comprehensive information management system
addressing the most important knowledge requirements.

Component 2: Conservation education. A conservation program at the scale of an entire
bioregion is faced with significant challenges for raising awareness and securing committed
action among the community at large. Processes of conservation education are fundamentally
based on achieving demonstrated action competence by individuals and groups, indicating their
understanding both of the problems confronting them and their ability to identify and implement
solutions. A high level of strategic knowledge and practice regarding conservation education
exists in the CFR, supported by national education policy reforms, but implementation is
fragmented and inefficient. The activities in this component are targeted at increasing
environmental awareness and committed action of the people in the CFR to contribute to
biodiversity conservation. Key interventions are (i) to facilitate co-ordinated environmental
education for the CFR by establishing a focal point and mechanism for co-ordination and
technical support to site-specific interventions at the level of each sub-component and activity
across the Project; (ii) the development and dissemination of materials focused on CFR
biodiversity, supportive of informal and formal education curricula; and (iii) training of
educators to capitalize on the favorable education policy environment. The component will
employ the most innovative approaches to action learning at the level of site interventions.

Component 3: Establishing the foundations of the biodiversity economy. Many of the
threats posed to the CFR are caused by economic activities and market forces which are not
aligned to the conservation of the CFR. Key threats include poorly managed agricultural
practices which have spill-over effects into sensitive areas, as well as the physical expansion of
the agricultural and coastal urban sectors into irreplaceable landscapes. Growing the
biodiversity economy presents opportunities to develop new market-based mechanisms to
conserve the CFR, to reduce the impact of businesses on biodiversity and to grow new
biodiversity-based business opportunities. Landowners are currently not sufficiently rewarded
to conserve threatened lowland biodiversity and ecological processes (e.g. there is still too
little reward to landowners to maintain watersheds free of alien vegetation). In instances where
there are no other incentives for landowners to conserve threatened habitat, the Project will
investigate and develop proposals for transfer of development rights and tax breaks. The job
creation opportunities inherent in expanding the conservation estate can be enhanced through
appropriate micro-enterprise, training and procurement opportunities being made available.
Interventions include identifying and designing market-based and fiscal mechanisms for
conservation by: (i) undertaking an economic evaluation of the CFR; (ii) evaluating the
effectiveness of existing market-based mechanisms and piloting payment for certain ecological
services (support conservation of biodiversity through water payment charges to upstream
landowners); (iii) designing and piloting market-based mechanisms at the municipal level, e.g.
rates rebates and transferable development rights; and investigating tax incentives to
landowners to conserve irreplaceable habitat. In addition, this component will support
developing mechanisms for lessening impacts of business on biodiversity by: (iv) supporting
the development, implementation and monitoring of a biodiversity charter in industries such as
wine, ostrich, wheat and tourism; and (v) supporting the development of micro-enterprises for
conservation management contracts.



                                                                                               12

Component 4: Program and Project co-ordination, management and monitoring. Co-
ordination of a multi-agency and multi-sectoral program across an entire bioregion is a novel and
challenging approach to conservation, and a unique opportunity in the case of the CFR. Political
and institutional agreements resulted in the establishment of a co-ordination process to oversee
the complete portfolio of activities supporting implementation of the CAPE 2000 Strategy. The
C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit provides support to executing agencies for project development and
management, conducts a communication program, performs program compliance audits and
reports progress. The number, size and complexity of C.A.P.E. activities demands increased
capacity to provide this co-ordination hub and to design and implement an overall Monitoring
and Evaluation framework. This component will result in enhanced co-ordination, effective
communication and efficient adaptive management of the C.A.P.E. Program as a whole. It
involves strengthening the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit at the NBI to undertake: (i) program co-
ordination and management; (ii) financial management; (iii) program portfolio management and
co-ordinated monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) a communication program.

Component 5: Unleashing the potential of protected areas. The CAPE 2000 Strategy
identified scientifically defensible priorities for representing biodiversity pattern and process
across the CFR in a system of protected areas, and for addressing the threats of climate change.
A protected area in this context is defined according to IUCN (1994) as "An area of land and/or
sea especially dedicated to the protection and maintenance of biological diversity, and of natural
and associated cultural resources, and managed through legal or other effective means" and can
be classified according to their objectives into six categories. The current protected area system
is inadequate to achieve global conservation targets for biodiversity in the CFR, and many of the
existing protected areas include land under a variety of protection designations and managed by
several authorities. There is a need to consolidate and expand the various land-holdings,
rationalize jurisdictions and harmonize approaches to promote efficient and effective adaptive
management. In particular, there is a need to establish linkages and corridors through
fragmented lowland habitats, establish protected areas for priority freshwater and estuarine
wetlands, and to establish and effectively manage marine protected areas. There is also a need to
gear protected area management models towards different social and institutional settings and to
ensure that appropriate investment in protected area development results in greater participation
by, and benefit to communities.

This component will complement CEPF funding, which focuses on civil society participation in
key biodiversity corridors, by piloting and adapting models for protected area planning and
development. This will result in the consolidation and sustainable, effective management of
protected areas representative of the biodiversity of the CFR. Major interventions include: (i) the
planning and consolidation of three large protected areas (Cedarberg, Baviaanskloof and the
Garden Route), with a particular emphasis on representation and extension through highly
threatened lowland habitats, and establishing two freshwater, two estuarine and two marine
protected areas representing characteristic institutional and socio-economic settings across the
CFR. The latter includes piloting fisheries co-management arrangements in the Kogelberg
Marine Protected Area using spatial set-asides; (ii) developing sustainable management
effectiveness through designing and testing a Strategic Performance Management System, based
on the models developed in the Cape Peninsula National Park and emergent rapid assessment
techniques for management effectiveness being developed by IUCN; (iii) establishing a


                                                                                                 13

harmonized protected area information management system; (iv) developing plans for
responsible tourism investment and visitor impact mitigation in four protected areas; and (v)
developing protected area business plans and mechanisms for financial sustainability in four
protected areas. Skills development for protected area management will be consolidated as an
activity under Component 1.

Component 6: Identifying and securing biodiversity in key sites. The most threatened
landscapes in the CFR are in the lowlands, where extensive agricultural and urban development
has taken place and which has resulted in transformed and poorly protected landscapes. The
remnants continue to be threatened by land transformation, poor land management and invasive
alien species. The decision-support system established in CAPE 2000 requires refinement at a
finer scale, and particularly in priority areas. In addition, there is a need to integrate biodiversity
priorities into decision-making at municipal level through the integrated development planning
process so that biodiversity priorities are explicitly spatially recognized. There remain significant
obstacles to ensuring that the outputs of fine-scale planning and prioritization are translated into
the protection of key sites in fragmented landscapes, and extensive support by private
landowners and sectors such as agriculture will be required. Responses include the use of fiscal
and non-fiscal incentive mechanisms, effective co-ordination of fragmented extension services,
and capacity-building for key actors.

This component will result in the biodiversity in five to six priority remnant patches in
fragmented landscapes being identified and secured. Some of these areas lie adjacent to the
proposed protected areas resulting in synergistic planning and management. The basis for the
intervention will be: (i) fine-scale conservation planning in at five priority areas representing
conditions across the CFR (Riversdale, Niewoudtville, Upper Breede River Valley, North West
Sandveld and West Coast lowlands, including the Saldanha peninsula); (ii) integrating these
plans into government spatial planning, building institutional and individual capacity in
municipalities in priority areas, and strengthening regulation in land-use planning; and (iii)
increasing landowner commitment to conservation by testing and refining fiscal and non-fiscal
incentives, building co-ordinated extension services and piloting co-operative management
schemes in priority areas.

Component 7: Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management. A key policy
reform of GoSA is the establishment of new Catchment Management Agencies for five
designated Catchment Management Areas in the CFR and setting aside of an "ecological
reserve" for ecosystem maintenance in all aquatic systems. Currently, the survival of native biota
as well as the maintenance of the ecosystem services are highly threatened by over-abstraction of
water in the CFR. There is a risk that the implementation of these policy directives will
inadequately address biodiversity concerns, but also a major opportunity to intervene and ensure
that a major improvement is effected. The institutional alignment of the Catchment Management
Agencies is incorporated into Component 1. This component will result in improved watershed
and water resource management, improved management of alien species and an improved
strategy for estuarine management. Interventions will include: (i) increasing the effectiveness of
the "Ecological Reserve" measure in water resource management in three watersheds, and
incorporating biodiversity concerns into the new fire management systems being implemented;
(ii) creating an alien invasive species management strategy and business plan for the entire CFR



                                                                                                    14

and piloting the control of invasive alien fish in certain priority freshwater ecosystems; and (iii)
designing and testing a CFR estuarine management program, based on relevant case studies.

Note: Rounding off changes figures slightly

                                              Costs     Co-        % of        GEF         % of
     Component                               (US$M)  financing     Total     financing     total
 1. Institutional strengthening (UNDP)           5.8        4.4         9.7         1.4    12.73
 2. Conservation education (UNDP)               1.11      0.51         1.16         0.6     5.45
 3. Establishing the foundations for the        2.33      1.12          4.0       1.21        11
    biodiversity economy/livelihoods
    (World Bank)
 4.Program co-ordination, management            1.63      0.68         1.54       0.95      8.64
    and monitoring (World Bank)
 5. Unleashing the potential of protected      27.72      23.6        53.48       4.12     37.45
    areas (World Bank)
 6. Identifying and securing biodiversity        9.5        8.1        17.0         1.4    12.73
    in key sites (World Bank)
 7. Integrating biodiversity into watershed     7.04      5.72        12.96       1.32     12.00
    management (World Bank)
 Total Project Costs                           55.13     44.13         100          11       100



C2.      Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought

South Africa's policy and institutional context for biodiversity conservation and sustainable
development is in a phase of rapid change and transition. Policy and legislative reforms
underway reflect the need to bring a larger area under conservation management, to provide for
a greater range of public - private sector management models, for new fiscal and non-fiscal
instruments to effect this, the need to ensure the financial viability of protected areas and
finally to mainstream biodiversity into the economy. The White Paper on the Conservation and
Sustainable Use of South Africa's Biological Diversity makes some progress on these issues
whilst the issue of national fiscal instruments necessarily falls under the responsibility of
Treasury. The White Paper is being translated into law through the Protected Areas Bill and
National Biodiversity Bill, published on 2 December, 2002 and 24 January, 2003 respectively
for public comment before being submitted to Parliament. The Program and the Project are at
the leading edge of implementing this draft legislation, and the implementation of the
bioregional approach to conservation planning and management in South Africa. Collectively,
the reforms referred to below will over the long term support the creation of a biodiversity
economy.

In particular the Project addresses the following policy and institutional reforms:

Mainstreaming: The use of fiscal and non-fiscal instruments to mainstream biodiversity into
the economy
The mainstreaming of biodiversity into the economy will be supported by the Project in a
number of ways. The key innovation and reform to be sought in this regard includes: (i) the
development and piloting of payment for ecological services in the water sector, i.e.



                                                                                                15

downstream water consumers pay upstream landowners to keep their land clear of alien
vegetation in order to ensure sufficient quantity of clean water, thereby creating a major
biodiversity benefit; (ii) the possibility of using tax rebates as an incentive to encourage
farmers to not plough up additional irreplaceable lowland habitat will be investigated, designed
and piloted; and (iii) in threatened lowland coastal habitats where there is considerable
pressure for urban development, the project will pilot the development and implementation of
the transfer of development rights.

Public private partnerships to achieve conservation goals
Conservation agencies have recognized that to realize conservation targets, a range of new
public-private sector partnerships will be required. The models are required since much of the
land will remain in private ownership, financial resources to purchase land will remain limited
and both the public and private sectors have significant contributions to make towards
conservation of the CFR. Therefore, a key reform to be sought by the end of the Project is to
have laid the foundation for a series of successful and replicable models for protected area
management which are accepted as best practice. These models will be developed in 3 large
protected areas, 6 fragmented landscapes, 2 freshwater, 2 estuarine environments and 2 clusters
of marine protected areas.

Co-operative governance in natural resource management
Natural resource management, and particularly management of biodiversity in South Africa, is
characterized by a high degree of institutional fragmentation across several tiers of government
and across sectors. The Constitution and National Environment Management Act (1998)
provide for interagency co-operative governance mechanisms, but these have not been
effectively implemented. The Project will establish efficient and effective means to engender
this co-operation in pursuit of the Project goals, and to develop options for more formal
mechanisms to achieve commitment, including a multi-stakeholder monitoring and evaluation
mechanism to determine and improve management effectiveness.

Sustainable financing for expanding and maintaining protected areas
Even though South Africa has made substantial progress in ensuring that its protected areas
generate a considerable portion of their income (average for South Africa is 40%) these levels
need to be increased as the state and private sector has limited financial resources to finance
the capital and operating costs of new and expanded protected areas. Therefore, a key
institutional reform to be sought is to ensure that by the end of year six the existing and new
protected area network can be maintained within the financial constraints of the conservation
managers and stewards. In order to support this activity, over $130,000 will be made available
from GEF resources. The funds will be used at two levels: firstly at the site-level, where
business plans for protected areas will be developed which identify the opportunities to recover
the costs of management and to create benefits for people; and secondly at the level of the
bioregion, where a review of the institutional framework and costs of conservation will inform
the development of a financial sustainability plan. The Project will encourage, where this is
cost-effective, the development of outsourcing opportunities as a mechanism of developing the
local economy and creating direct and indirect financial benefits in poor local communities.




                                                                                              16

3. Benefits and target population

3.1 Environmental benefits

The overriding benefit of the Project is that priority terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity
conservation areas in the globally significant CFR and adjacent marine environment will be
secured through a suite of interventions, including (i) expansion and consolidation of the
protected area system and enhancing management effectiveness; (ii) integration of biodiversity
concerns into land-use decision-making; (iii) supporting co-management initiatives involving
landowners and the private sector; (iv) incorporating biodiversity concerns into watershed
management; (v) improving management of invasive alien species and of estuaries; and (vi)
lessening ecological impacts. Additional environmental benefits will include enhanced
watershed management, increased availability of water and reduced soil erosion. Threats such
as alien vegetation, fires and inappropriate land-use will be reduced and cultural resources and
the cultural heritage of the region will be conserved.

3.2 Socio-economic benefits

Private sector and landowners/farmers

The Project is expected to create a number of socio-economic opportunities for communities
and businesses located in and adjacent to the proposed protected areas. The Project is also
expected to lay the initial foundation for the establishment of the biodiversity economy. The
main benefits which are expected to accrue include: (i) procurement opportunities for small
businesses and micro-enterprises located adjacent to protected areas. Opportunities will include
environmental rehabilitation contracts and provision of          tourism related services and
accommodation; (ii) benefits are expected to accrue to a limited number of landowners and
farmers located in sensitive habitats where models for payment for ecological services will be
designed and piloted; (iii) in the marine environment, 2 communities will benefit from co-
management models whilst others will benefit from improved anti-poaching and management
of marine resources; (iv) farmers and tourist operators who participate in schemes related to
product certification are expected to benefit from improved market penetration; (v) indications
from projects such as the GEF funded Greater Addo Elephant National Park indicate that the
multiplier effects of eco-tourism on the national and provincial are substantial. Therefore,
many of the benefits associated with enhanced tourist numbers to the CFR will not only be
captured by local tourist operators but also by the broader Provincial economy; (vi) further,
land values are expected to increase in areas surrounding protected areas, as investment to
conservation land-uses switches from less profitable land-uses; and (vii) opportunities for
improvements in farm efficiency and income are expected to result from improved extension
services aimed at reducing for example pesticide use and improving land management.

NGOs, civil society and disadvantaged groups
Employment levels and wages are expected to increase with more stable working conditions on
marginal agricultural land suitable for conservation purposes. Strong evidence now exists of
this trend in the GEF funded Addo project, and other areas of South Africa. Combined with
programs such as Working for Water, to undertake environmental rehabilitation, communities



                                                                                              17

have reaped significant socio-economic benefits. Within protected areas and watersheds,
environmental rehabilitation will create much-needed employment and micro-enterprise
development opportunities. Environmental education, training and capacity building
opportunities will accrue to individuals, communities, schools and NGOs, enabling them to
participate effectively, become actively involved in activities that support the goals of the
Project, exploit entrepreneurial opportunities and access benefits. Relevant NGOs will be
offered opportunities to play pivotal roles in Project implementation, in partnership with
government agencies.

4.      Institutional and implementation arrangements

The CAPE 2000 Strategy concluded that a purpose-built institutional arrangement would be
best suited to implement C.A.P.E. at inception, but that alternative arrangements would be
investigated during the course of Project implementation. The C.A.P.E. and the Project are
currently governed by the same set of institutional arrangements at a strategic level. However,
the Project will clearly require a more detailed set of implementation arrangements to be
prepared for the various components. The key institutional and implementation arrangements
are as follows: (i) the key executing agents to the C.A.P.E. and the Project, are bound by a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). The parties to the agreement include the National
Ministries of Environmental Affairs and Tourism and Water Affairs and Forestry, and the
Members of the Executive Councils of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape, responsible for
Environment Affairs.

The MoU created two key structures: the C.A.P.E. Coordinating Committee (CCC), with the
overall function to co-ordinate the long-term implementation of the CAPE 2000 Strategy by
the executing agencies, and to advance and represent the common interests of the Parties in
matters concerning the management of the CFR environment. This is a structure which
operates at a political level between National and Provincial Government. The second
structure, the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (CIC), represents government departments,
municipalities, statutory bodies and accredited non-governmental organizations. It is
responsible for executing the CAPE 2000 Strategy according to the recommendations of the
C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Committee. It therefore operates at a technical level.

(ii) the MoU designates the National Botanical Institute (NBI) as the program and project
management agency to C.A.P.E and therefore as recipient of external resources for execution
purposes including the GEF grant. It is responsible for maintaining the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination
Unit as the C.A.P.E. secretariat and focal point for co-ordination for the program and the
Project. The C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit is located within the NBI's Directorate of
Biodiversity Planning and Policy; (iii) the NBI, through a performance management
agreement, is responsible to the CCC for the performance of its role as Program/Project
Management Agency, and has established an Executive Committee (EXCO) to include key
staff of the NBI and representatives of the CIC's Executive Committee for day-to-day
management purposes.




                                                                                            18

(iv) the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit consists of a Co-ordinator, Administrative Assistant,
Finance/Business Manager, Communications Manager and Program Developer, with all other
supervisory, administrative, financial and human resource management services being supplied
by the NBI. The continued function of the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit, the key integrative
structure for the co-ordinated and co-operative implementation of C.A.P.E., will be partially
financed through the Project Grant, with specialized skills, e.g. for Monitoring and Evaluation,
being outsourced. The Components and Sub-components being financed through World Bank
support are to be executed by the NBI and a suite of executing agencies, with clearly
established lead responsibilities. The NBI will generally implement all elements of the Project
that have a cross-cutting nature.

(v) the NBI will enter into standard contractual agreements with lead executing agencies for
the execution of elements of the Project, identified during preparation, based on their
comparative advantage and legal mandates.

Financial management

The Project is being implemented jointly through the World Bank and UNDP as GEF
Implementing Agencies, each with responsibilities for specific Components and Sub-
components (Refer to Annex 4). GEF resources for this Project will be channeled to the NBI as
the Grant Recipient and lead executing agency via separate grant agreements from the World
Bank and the UNDP. Project funds will be transferred into Special Accounts established by the
NBI at a commercial bank. The NBI has functioned as Grant Recipient for three other GEF
grants, including the Preparatory Grant for the Project. Whilst its systems are proven for smaller
projects, a financial management assessment will be undertaken for the full size grant. The
necessary systems and financial management requirements will be designed based on these
findings. The same approach will apply for procurement.

Project monitoring and evaluation

One of the key components of the Project is the establishment of an overall Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) mechanism for C.A.P.E.. M&E will therefore be conducted at two levels.
At the level of Project performance, the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit will conduct monitoring
and evaluation against the overall indicators in the logical framework for the Project (Annex
1). A six-monthly progress report will be presented to the World Bank, UNDP, CCC and CIC,
co-ordinated with supervision missions of the Implementing Agencies. At the level of the
Project's impact, a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation framework will be developed
with participation of all executing agencies to determine progress towards the goals and targets
of the Project and compliance with the provisions of the MoU to implement the CAPE 2000
Strategy. It is intended that independent reviews of Project progress will be undertaken, at mid-
term (late 2006) and at the end of Phase 1 (late 2008) both to guide the adaptive development
of the Project and the strategy that underlies it, but also to guide the preparation and
implementation of Phase 2. The key performance indicators identified in Section A2 will act as
the triggers to identify the readiness of the Project to apply to the GEF for a second tranche of
funding and to move to the next phase of the Program.




                                                                                               19

D.      PROJECT RATIONALE

D1.     Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Bundle of projects versus programmatic approach: During the preparation of the Project, options
to achieve the Development Objectives were examined. The CAPE 2000 Strategy identified 37
projects, needed to conserve the CFR. The most significant option evaluated was to finance and
manage each of these projects through discrete funding initiatives, which, taken together, could
conceivably achieve the objectives of the Strategy. This would involve disaggregated
institutional and funding arrangements for each project. In many ways, this option would be
simpler than a programmatic approach. It in theory requires little or no co-ordination, is
decentralized geographically and institutionally, and the accountability of each project is
unambiguous.

However, the challenge was to translate bioregional planning into efficient and effective
bioregional implementation. It was clear that by definition, a bioregional program of
implementation simply can not be managed through a highly decentralized suite of projects with
little coordination between the activities, shared learning and adaptive management. Further, the
transaction costs of preparing and managing a series of independent projects were recognised as
being considerably higher than preparing and managing a suite of activities which effectively
constitute a program. All stakeholders together with the GEFSEC unanimously agreed to adopt a
program approach towards implementing C.A.P.E..

A bioregional programmatic approach to biodiversity conservation was adopted by South Africa
in 2002 (A Bioregional Approach to South Africa's Protected Areas 2001-2002). C.A.P.E. has
been structured in terms of this approach.

Strategic use of resources: One alternative considered was to use GEF funds to fund all 37
proposed projects across the entire CFR. However, it soon became apparent that insufficient
resources could be mobilised, that the agencies lacked the capacity to manage such a large range
of activities, that sequencing was required and adaptive management based on lessons learnt.
Therefore, the activities to be supported by the Project were carefully prioritised into enabling
activities and a limited number of site based interventions which could be maintained after the
Project and scaled up with the availability of additional resources.

New partners and beneficiaries: Until recently, conservation objectives in South Africa were not
based on the achievement of scientifically proven biodiversity requirements. Conservation was
regarded as an activity to be funded and managed by the state for the benefit of a limited sector
of the population. This meant that the threats and root causes of biodiversity loses were seldom
properly identified and addressed. Biodiversity objectives were usually advanced through the
state purchase of scenic and pristine land to proclaim nature reserves and National Parks, to be
managed by the state. CAPE 2000 Strategy identified the flaws and failings in this approach. The
downscaling of state funding to conservation, the fact that threats to the environment are caused
by people and require people to be involved in finding solutions, the realization that the state and
private sector have certain comparative advantages in conservation, the need to better link the
achievement of biodiversity objectives to socio-economic objectives and the realisation that



                                                                                                  20

public-private partnerships are key in this regard became clear. Based on CAPE 2000 Strategy,
the Project will develop conservation models which effectively use landowners and potential
beneficiaries of natural resources to expand and manage priority areas under protected area
management. The Project will therefore develop both public private-partnership models and a
series of new market based mechanisms to advance conservation objectives.

Choice of lead agent for Project implementation: A number of possible options existed for the
selection of a lead executing agency or series of agencies for Project execution. The
Implementing Agencies and local partners were guided in their decision to select the NBI for a
number of reasons. These included the findings of CAPE 2000 (see below) on institutional
arrangements as well as subsequent considerations.

"There already are a number of strong and viable institutions in the country, each with initiatives
under way and representing the private sector, government and NGO sectors. A sensible
approach would be to build a coalition of groups mandated to implement the vision and strategy
of the Action Plan. Best practice tells us that this coalition needs to have a shared vision with
both the authority and accountability to give it credibility in broader society. A legal Trust may
be one appropriate vehicle to achieve this aim." The choice of the NBI was based on the
following: (i) experience in project management has indicated that projects are better managed if
there is one lead executing agent with activities identified for execution by other agencies
according to their legal mandates and comparative advantages; (ii) it was important to select an
institution which is anticipated to perform a key bioregional planning role under legislation about
to go before Parliament. The NBI is identified in this regard as the future home for bioregional
planning and has already begun to perform this role; (iii) an organization needed to be selected
which has previously demonstrated ability to execute GEF-supported UNDP and World Bank
projects according to the fiduciary requirements of the two agencies; (iv) robust partnerships
require the trust of all parties in order to perform a leadership role. They should not be regarded
as having an undue vested interest in the Project; and (v) where domestic interests have already
begun to develop a sustainable and action orientated partnership and workable set of institutional
arrangements, it makes sense that it is supported. Under the circumstances it was apparent that
the NBI provided the best fit for the role of lead executing agent with the role of other executing
agencies being defined during preparation according to their mandates and comparative
advantages.

Project fund management: In order to reduce the transaction costs of fund management for the
recipient, the option of a sector-wide basket funding approach to C.A.P.E. was considered. This
was discussed with other donor agencies, but was rejected. Firstly, the quantum of funding does
not warrant this approach and secondly there was little support for the approach from other
funders and donors.




                                                                                                 21

D2.      Major related projects completed by the World Bank and/or other development
         agencies (completed, ongoing and planned)

Sector issue             Project                          Latest supervision (PSR) Ratings
                                                         (World Bank-financed projects only)
                                                         Implementation         Development
                                                          Progress (IP)        Objective (DO)
World Bank-financed
Industry                 Industrial Competitiveness            U                     U
Municipal                Municipal Financial
                         Management Support (awaiting
                         disbursement)
World Bank supported
(MSPs do not officially
have PSR ratings)
WB-GEF                   Cape Peninsula Biodiversity           S                     S
                         Conservation
WB-GEF                   Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem
                         Planning (STEP) MSP
WB-GEF                   Conservation Farming, MSP
WB-GEF                   Sustainable Protected Area
                         Development in Namaqualand.
                         MSP
GEF                      Global Development Renewable
                         Energy (preparation)
Other development
agencies
UNDP-GEF                 Agulhas Plain (preparation)
UNDP-GEF                 BCLME
UNDP-GEF                 SABONET
UNDP                     Tourism Master Strategy
UNDP-GEF                 Wild Coast (preparation)
CEPF                     Succulent Karoo Ecosystem
                         Profile
CEPF                     CFR Ecosystem Profile
DANCED                   Capacity Building in SANParks.
                         Socio-economic overview of
                         disadvantaged community
                         neighboring AENP
Industrial Development   Tourism Product Development
Corporation (IDC)
IFC                      Tourism Product Development
SA Government            Poverty Relief Program (WfW)

D3.      Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design

Lessons learnt reflect experiences, including international best practice, from programs and
projects under preparation or supervision inside and outside of South Africa, the findings of
implementation completion reports and agency reviews.




                                                                                              22

3.1 Programmatic approach
Programmatic frameworks are best advanced within the context of a well-conceived Action Plan,
building on the outcomes and lessons derived from pre-feasibility investments. This plan should
provide a clear blueprint for systematically mainstreaming biodiversity objectives into
development plans and strategies, and identifying priorities for intervention. Bioregional
conservation programs should be driven by the borrower, have strong domestic political support
and interventions should be spatially defined.

3.2 Participatory approach
There should be a coherence and consistency in the approach to public participation between the
various Program and Project interventions. Successful stakeholder participation is dependent on
a commitment to participatory approaches by executing bodies. Sensitivity to local variations of
culture, history, language and traditions is required. Groups marginalised for reasons of poverty,
gender, culture and language require specific attention and support in the design and
implementation of detailed participation activities. Significant local stakeholder support and
commitment can be leveraged through decentralized approaches. The early involvement of key
stakeholders in planning is essential in order to ensure ownership and successful project
implementation.

3.3 Institutional strengthening
Wherever practicable, implementation responsibilities should be vested in existing institutions.
An analysis of institutional capacities and performance should be undertaken prior to
determination of institutional responsibilities, at a programmatic level. The need for agency
alignment with the project, and synergy in effort between actors, requires strategic review of
mission, goals, operations and budgets by such agencies. This should be an iterative, incremental
process responding to the ongoing evolution of C.A.P.E. and the changing circumstances (e.g.
enabling legal environment) of the implementing agencies and partners.

3.4 Biodiversity planning and management
Protected areas cannot be effective if they are managed as discrete islands, isolated from their
social and economic contexts. Achieving the expansion of the conservation network will require
innovative ways of including key private land into the conservation network. Incentives will not
succeed if used in isolation; they need to be complemented by other programs and initiatives by
implementing agencies.

Traditional fishery management measures (e.g. size limits, bag limits, closed seasons) that are
not used in conjunction with Marine Protected Areas have failed to limit exploitation.
Monitoring, surveillance and control should be increased at all levels. In addition, coastal
livelihoods need to be promoted. This is a long-term undertaking, and should promote win-win
solutions for poverty and the environment, focus special attention on the interests of vulnerable
groups, and promote gender equity. Allocation of rights to marine living resources should be
guided by clearly defined criteria, goals and objectives, developed in a participatory process.

3.5 New market based mechanisms
The lessons learnt from the payment for ecological services program in Costa Rica will be
applied to design and implementation in the Project. It is important that such funding
mechanisms are placed on a sustainable financial footing. Other economic instruments which


                                                                                                23

will be investigated to conserve biodiversity and reduce carbon emissions include looking at the
World Bank's biocarbon fund. Tax rebates for conservation and transfer of development rights
precedent will be examined from a range of countries.


D4.     Indication of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership

The South African Government, together with other agencies, is committed to the conservation
of the 3 global biodiversity hotspots falling within its borders. To this end it has signed all key
international biodiversity related conventions, is about to promulgate new biodiversity and
protected areas legislation and has provided considerable resources for purchase of strategic
parcels of biodiversity worthy land. Further, it has identified the NBI as the home to support
bioregional planning and implementation.

The C.A.P.E. is internationally recognized as an innovative program which has the support of all
main stakeholders with certain key activities currently under implementation. The CAPE 2000
Strategy was agreed to by all stakeholders in September 2000, and the main executing agencies
immediately began implementation of the most important components, while continuing to seek
domestic and further donor support. WWF-SA undertook to continue the role of co-ordinating
C.A.P.E., and an Interim Co-ordination Committee was established. Since September 2000,
C.A.P.E. has operated without significant donor support, with executing agencies agreeing to
co-operate and maintaining their interest and commitment to the present day. Agreement was
reached between national and provincial executive levels of government to continue the
development and implementation of C.A.P.E., with a Memorandum of Understanding signed
between national and provincial ministers. In addition, a Memorandum of Understanding was
entered into by all 16 key executing agencies, representing the GoSA, NGOs and conservation
agencies. These agencies have continued to support C.A.P.E., with quarterly meetings and
commitments to action.

C.A.P.E. is listed as key deliverable on the annual work plan of the Department of Environment
Affairs and Tourism as well as in the South African GEF Medium Term Priority Framework.
The Project is supported by a very significant baseline in excess of $200 million over 6 years

D5.     Value added of World Bank, UNDP and Global support in this project

The CFR is a global asset. As such its value transcends national boundaries and the threats are of
such a nature that they require response from the international community if the global value of
this asset is to be maintained. The role of the GEF, the World Bank and of UNDP is to bring
resources from the international community including technical and financial support to augment
current baseline capacities. Both organizations are well positioned to support the Project due to
their extensive experience in supporting programs in a large number of middle income and
developing countries. Support from the World Bank and UNDP will be based on comparative
advantage. The World Bank's strengths lie in supporting large programs which leverage
significant investment including public and private sector and which provide opportunities for
mainstreaming into productive sectors of the economy. The World Bank is currently supporting a
number of biodiversity and land degradation projects which promote integrated ecosystem
management, identifying threats and root causes of biodiversity loss. The World Bank has good


                                                                                                 24

knowledge of South Africa and of the CFR through its current support to the Cape Peninsula
Biodiversity Conservation Project (including the CAPE 2000 Strategy), support to three MSPs
including through the National Botanical Institute and the preparation of Addo Project. Extensive
support has been provided in the planning, management systems, capacity building, tourism
promotion, environmental education, knowledge management and alien species control
activities. Further, the Bank has experience in supporting new instruments such as payment for
ecological services.

The UNDP has similarly provided support or is currently preparing a number of programs in the
region which focus on integrated ecosystem management. Programs under implementation
include the regional SABONET Program, Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Program
with others under preparation including the Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative as well as MSPs.
Based on experience inside and outside of South Africa the UNDP is positioned to lead on the
capacity building and conservation education components of the Project.

Annual funder round tables will be hosted by the South African Government and supported by
the Bank and the UNDP. The aims of the funder roundtable will be: (i) for the recipient to
annually report to funders, donors and other domestic agencies on project progress and to agree
on the project deliverables and use of funder resources for the next year; (ii) finalize the support
of additional funders and donors to the project. The target is to increase financial support by an
additional 15% in this regard; and (iii) Seek additional specialist technical support from funders
to the program in components 1,2,3 and 6 in particular. The funder roundtables will therefore
constitute the culmination of various earlier bilateral discussions involving Government, the
Bank and UNDP with existing funders and donors, rather that the initiation thereof. This support
will take place whilst recognizing the preferred South African Government position to use
Government funds within the CFR and to direct donor funds to the poorer Provinces.

E.      ISSUES REQUIRING SPECIAL ATTENTION

E1.     Economic
  Summarize issues below      [X] To be defined        None

Economic evaluation methodology
Cost benefit
( ) Cost effectiveness
(*)Incremental cost
( ) Other (specify)
The incremental cost analysis will be rechecked prior to appraisal based on the more detailed
determination of Project activities.

E2.     Financial

  Summarize issues below      [X] To be defined        None

Whilst the NBI is already successfully executing two GEF projects and has received unqualified
audits, a financial assessment will be undertaken of the capability of the NBI and other executing



                                                                                                 25

agencies to execute the Project. If need be, a financial management strengthening plan will be
prepared. Although preparatory work to date indicates the positive fiscal impact of the Project on
the regional economy and on executing agencies, this will be confirmed prior to appraisal.
Special attention will be paid to the implications of ongoing operating costs.

E3.     Technical
  Summarize issues below            To be defined       [X] None

E4.     Institutional

An institutional assessment has been undertaken of the key executing agencies. The overall
assessment is that the agencies are well positioned to perform baseline activities. A readiness for
implementation assessment will be reconfirmed during Project preparation based on clearer
definition of responsibilities. A list of lead agencies is attached as Annex 6.

4.1 Project management

No special issues. C.A.P.E. is characterized by co-ordinated program and project management
arrangements to be provided by the NBI through the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit. The NBI has a
proven track record in project management, and the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit will be staffed
with personnel with appropriate qualifications and experience.

4.2 Procurement issues

No special issues. Whilst the NBI has demonstrated highly satisfactory compliance to World
Bank procurement requirements, its procedures will be reconfirmed and if need be a
strengthening plan prepared during project preparation.

4.3 Financial management issues

In accordance with GoSA policy, the NBI will act as recipient of funds on behalf of South
Africa, and will open and operate a Special Account. Whilst, the NBI has demonstrated highly
satisfactory financial management for smaller grants, a financial management assessment will be
undertaken and if need be a strengthening plan developed.

E5.     Environmental

5.1.    Summarize significant environmental issues and objectives and identify key stakeholders.
        (if the issues are still to be determined, describe current or planned efforts to do so)

The Project is designed to have a substantial positive benefit on a globally significant
biodiversity asset. It will do this through restoring globally significant biodiversity in certain key
sites as indicated in section 3 of the Project. Other Project activities will support creating and
environment for replicability of Project activities outside of the identified sites. The GEF funded
CPNP project as well as the Namaqualand MSP have demonstrated the positive impact of these
types of interventions on the ecological, economic and social environments.



                                                                                                    26

The key stakeholder groups and their interests are described in detail in Annexes 6 and 8. The
key groups include government and parastatal conservation agencies (currently supporting
project design), private sector/landowners (bringing land under conservation and tendering for
business opportunities created in the CFR) and civil society, the general public and youth in
terms of environmental education. Seven key national and international environment NGOs are
currently supporting the project.

The key conservation-focused government, parastatals, and NGOs have been involved in the
preparation of the Project and will be involved in execution. Each project activity will, during
implementation, identify the key stakeholders to be consulted and involved in implementation. In
other instances domestic legal requirements will trigger consultation.

As the CAPE 2000 Strategy in essence constituted a major strategic environmental assessment
for the whole of the CFR, this exercise will not be repeated during preparation. Instead it is
proposed that an environment and social safeguards framework is developed to address all
safeguard issues requiring downstream Project compliance, prior to appraisal. The framework
will be consistent with the framework requirements currently being prepared by the World Bank.
The Project does not trigger any specific significant environmental assessment requirements.

5.2 Environmental category and justification/rationale for category rating: B.

An environment and social safeguards framework will be required due to this being a project
with interventions across an entire Floral Kingdom of 90,000 km2.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA
     EA start-up date: March 30, 2003
     Date of first EA May 30, 2003
     Expected date of final draft: July 30, 2003

5.4    Determine whether an environmental management plan (EMP) will be required and its
     overall scope, relationship to the legal documents, and implementation responsibilities. For
     Category B projects for IDA funding, determine whether a separate EA report is required.
     What institutional arrangements are proposed for developing and handling the EMP?

No overall EMP is required. EMPs will be provided at individual site level to meet South
African requirements deemed to be consistent with World Bank requirements.

5.5    How will stakeholders be consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
     draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP?

Stakeholders will be consulted at the individual project implementation level according to
requirements of South Africa's legislation.

5.6 Are mechanisms being considered to monitor and measure the impact of the project on the
     environment? Will the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP section of
     the EA?




                                                                                              27

At strategic level, clear biodiversity, social and economic indicators are in the process of being
selected for a detailed project monitoring and evaluation system.

6.      Social

6.1.    Summarize key social issues arising out of the project objectives, and the Project's
        planned social development outcomes. If the issues are still to be determined, describe
        current or planned efforts to do so.

The Project is designed to have a positive social benefit on inhabitants of the CFR. The projects
primary social development outcomes will remain confined to those communities living in close
proximity to proposed protected areas who will benefit from employment opportunities, tourism
opportunities and access to marine resources. Economic benefits are intended to accrue to
landowners in the later part of the project from the market based mechanisms and incentives
activities. During preparation, the Project's socio-economic benefits will be better defined.

6.2     Participatory Approach: How will key stakeholders participate in the project?

Stakeholders will participate at a number of different levels. Key stakeholders will continue to
participate through the C.A.P.E. Co-ordinating Committee and the C.A.P.E. Implementation
Committee, as well as through site-based Project steering committees with local stakeholders.
During preparation, policy and guidelines for participation were produced to guide
implementation activities. For each activity, and where appropriate, a stakeholder analysis will
be undertaken and relevant participation mechanisms identified and implemented. Project-based
environmental education, training and capacity building opportunities will be made available to
individuals and communities to enable them to participate effectively in Project activities.

6.3     How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil
        society organizations?

Consultations have taken place with civil society and local and international NGOs both during
the CAPE 2000 Strategy process and during preparation activities. Relevant NGOs will be
offered opportunities to play pivotal roles in Project implementation, in partnership with
government agencies, as has already occurred in relation to the Baviaanskloof (Wilderness
Foundation), and fine-scale conservation planning (Botanical Society). Stakeholder participation
will be encouraged and supported in all aspects of the Project to ensure effective involvement
and commitment.

6.4     What institutional arrangements are planned to ensure that the project achieves its social
        development outcomes?

Key interest groups, communities and local stakeholders will be represented on all relevant
Project committees. Monitoring of impacts will also take place with corrective actions taken.
World Bank supervision missions will also monitor social components of the project.

6.5     What mechanisms are proposed to monitor and measure project performance in terms of
        social development outcomes? If unknown at this stage, please indicate.


                                                                                                28

At strategic level, clear biodiversity, social and economic indicators are in the process of being
selected for a detailed monitoring and evaluation system which will be partly developed prior to
appraisal and elaborated on during preparation.

7.      Safeguard policies

7.1. Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?

     Policy                                                                               Applicability
     Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                                 *Yes No TBD
     Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                         *Yes No TBD
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                          *Yes No TBD
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                            *Yes No TBD
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
                            4                                                             *Yes No TBD
     Indigenous Peoples5 (OD 4.20)                                                         Yes * No TBD
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
                                     6                                                     *Yes No TBD
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                     Yes *No TBD
     Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                       Yes *No TBD
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                                Yes *No TBD

7.2.    Project Compliance
a)      Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with safeguard policies
        which are applicable

Under 7.2 (a) Environmental assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered by virtue of the fact the Project
covers a very large area, in a sensitive global biodiversity hotspot and includes a multiplicity of
interventions. Due to the nature of the Project it warrants the development of a social and
environmental assessment framework to include World Bank policies 4.01, 4.04, 4.36, 4.09 and
11.03. Natural habitats (OP4.04), is triggered by virtue of the fact that the Project is located in a
biodiversity hotspot, though the overall Project is designed to secure this key global asset for
future generations. Forestry (OP4.36), is triggered as one of the proposed protected areas to be
supported is located on the Garden Route and includes portions of pristine indigenous forest.
Pest management (OP 4.09) is triggered as an activity in component 7 may include the use of
pesticides in rivers to kill off alien fish under well controlled conditions and complying to
international best practice. Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) is triggered by virtue of the fact that
some of the proposed protected areas contain rock art and perhaps other cultural property.
Conservation use will clearly help to protect these assets.




4  The World Bank's policy on Cultural Property applies to all projects, which pose a risk of damage or destruction to any form
   of cultural property.
5  The World Bank's policy on indigenous peoples applies to all projects which are undertaken on the territory occupied by
   social groups such as "indigenous peoples," "indigenous ethnic minorities," "tribal groups," and "scheduled tribes" who have
   a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society, and who are vulnerable and disadvantaged in the
   development process.
6  The World Bank's resettlement policy applies to investment projects in which the taking of land or other assets results in loss
   of shelter, assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood.




                                                                                                                               29

Involuntary resettlement could be triggered under the support to the proposed expansion of the
protected areas in the CFR. Therefore, it is proposed that an involuntary resettlement policy and
process framework is combined into one framework and developed prior to appraisal. Should
any resettlement action plans be required in year one of implementation, these will be developed
prior to appraisal.


b)      If application is still to be determined, describe current or planned efforts to make a
        determination

The above safeguard requirements have been determined in cooperation with the ASPEN team.

8.      Business Policies

8.1     Check applicable items:
 _Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
 _Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP 6.30, BP 6.30, GP 6.30)
 _Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP 12.10, BP 12.10, GP12.10)
 _Financial management (OP 10.02, BP 10.02)
 _Involvement of NGOs (GP 14.70)


F.      SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS

1.      Sustainability

The Project is considered to have high opportunity for being sustainable. It is characterized by
low levels of GEF investment to baseline and co-financing, relatively robust institutions to
execute the Project as well as growing private and public investment in the sector. Phase 1 of the
Project and subsequent phases are designed to ensure that each can be concluded if need be
without further GEF investment. Whilst further GEF investment in subsequent phases will be
required for full Project implementation, investments and capacities which are developed will
require maintenance support within the anticipated capacities of the executing agencies.
Notwithstanding this, five key factors have been taken into account to ensure sustainability: (i)
any institutional reorganization which is instituted will be undertaken to cause minimum
disruption to the Project; (ii) the baseline financial and technical capabilities of executing
agencies will be developed to meet the new requirements described in the Project; (iii) project
execution will primarily take place at the executing agency level where responsibility, capacity
and know how resides; (iv) the Project will engage with resource users responsible for
biodiversity losses such as in the marine environment in order to ensure acceptability and support
for new models; and (v) markets for the provision of ecological services will be operationalized
and ecological provisions will be mainstreamed into the productive sectors of the economy in
order to develop a new layer of resource managers.




                                                                                                30

 1a.    Replicability

 Both the overall program as well as the GEF investment are designed and expected to be
 replicable in a number of contexts: (i) the overall bioregional design of C.A.P.E. provides a
 model which is already being used in South Africa in three other projects (Succulent Karoo
 Ecosystem Profile, Addo and the Thicket Biome with others in the pipeline; (ii) the institutional
 arrangements for implementing C.A.P.E. provide a model partnership for co-operative
 governance in the environment sector for other regions; (iii) the conservation education
 component will provide a co-operative model for implementation elsewhere; (iv) the work on
 creating market-based mechanisms for financing payment for ecological services will have
 national and possibly international application; and (v) the mechanisms to be developed to
 conserve fragmented landscapes will have application in other locations with similar land-use
 planning legislation.

 2. Critical Risks - (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
 Annex 1)

                  Risk                      Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objectives
Output 1: Inadequate alignment of               M           Alignment to the program to be an annual
strategies of key conservation agencies                     requirement for executing agencies to access
                                                            GEF resources
Output 2: Stakeholders are not                  M           Design innovative strategies to solicit
committed to support the conservation                       environmental education support
education components of the program
Output 3: Businesses are unwilling to           M           Ensure that realistic market based
support new market-based                                    mechanisms are selected and test market first
mechanisms
Output 4: Stakeholders perceive the              N          Base strengthening needs on capacity audits
Project to be a low priority and
therefore do not partake in
management strengthening
Output 5: Implementing agencies are             M           Support agencies to increase self generated
not adequately resourced to maintain                        income
protected areas
Output 6: Development planning                  M           Develop cost-effective easy to use planning
resources cannot support conservation                       systems
in fragmented landscapes
Output 7: Fire Protection Associations          M           Support development of self generated
are under-funded to perform mandates                        income
From Components to Outputs
Component 1: Lack of commitment by               N          Ensure that the Project responds to needs of
key agencies to the Project.                                executing agencies whilst remaining focused
                                                            on funding incremental costs
Component 2: Consensus is not                   M           Bring all key players into the process upfront
reached on an education strategy



                                                                                                   31

                  Risk                       Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
Component 3: Demand does not exist               M           Ensure that each new service or product has
for services developed to support                            a clearly defined market
biodiversity economy
Component 4: Agencies fail to support             N          Ensure relevance of the Project to executing
the Project.                                                 agencies
Component 5: Resettlement issues                 M           Ensure proper stakeholder consultation and
retard establishment of protected areas                      proper resettlement planning should it be
                                                             required
Component 6: Communities unwilling               M           Ensure proper consultation and that
to support conservation in fragmented                        proposals are advantageous to communities
landscapes
Component 7: New CMAs not                         H          Undertake capacity assessments prior to
resourced to perform mandates                                investments
OVERALL RISK RATING                              M

 Risk Rating ­ H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)

 F3.      Possible controversial aspects

 Due to the highly beneficial impact of the Project it is unlikely to generate significant
 controversy. However, at the local level, issues of public interest can be expected to arise. These
 are likely to include (i) the contestation of limitations on harvesting of certain marine organisms
 (whether legal or illegal) to ensure that their relentless depletion is abated. Any other issues
 falling within the ambit of protected area expansion or resettlement could trigger controversy;
 (ii) the continued outsourcing of protected area facilities in which conservation agencies have no
 comparative advantage is contested by some as part of a general anti-privatization issue; (iii) the
 development of markets for payment for ecological services is contested in some circles for
 various reasons; and (iv) changes in land-use from traditional agricultural use to conservation
 land-use is sometimes regarded as a retrogressive step for agricultural development.


 G.       PROJECT PREPARATION AND PROCESSING

 1.       Has a project preparation plan been agreed with the borrower (see annex 2)?

 [ ] Yes - date submitted:      [X] No - date expected:        01/05/2003

 2.       Advice/consultation outside country department

 [X] Within the World Bank: Project approaches have been discussed. World Bank
      staff from Latin America, Africa region and Central Environment Department have been
      consulted. UNDP staff from Madagascar and Mexico have been consulted.

 [X] Other development agencies: UNDP, WWF-South Africa, Botanical Society South Africa,
      CEPF, Conservation International, Flora and Fauna International, Table Mountain Fund,



                                                                                                  32

   DANIDA, USAID, GTZ, NORAD, JICA, CIRAD, European Union, AUSAID, French
   Government, Development Bank Southern Africa.

[X] External Review: Kenton Miller

3.     Composition of the Task Team (See Annex 2)

World Bank: Christopher Warner TTL, Christophe Crépin, Agi Kiss, Charlotte Bingham,
Stefano Pagiola, Claudia Sobrevila, Krish Krishnakumar, Iraj Talai, Mel Jaya, Caroline Guazzo,
Amanda Younge ( consultant )
UNDP: Nik Sekhran TM, Eddy Russell, Maryam Niamir-Fuller, Marcel Alers
FFI: Adriana Dinu
C.A.P.E. Co-ordinator: Trevor Sandwith
Consultants: Mandy Barnett, Grant Benn, Derek Berliner, Barry Clark, Christopher Clarke,
Marion Fogell, Onno Huyser, James Jackelman, Marlene Laros, Ian Macdonald, David Shandler,
Amina Sulaiman, Razeena Wagiet.
Preparation Team Leaders: Colin Attwood (MCM), Fanie Bekker (WCNCB), Mark Botha
(BotSoc), Lindie Buirski (City of Cape Town), Amanda Driver (BotSoc), Dipolelo Elford
(DEA&DP), Willie Enright (DWAF), Sarah Frazee (CI-SA), Hettie Gets (WWF-SA), Dawie
Krüger (DEA&DP), Christo Marais (Working for Water), Kristal Maze (BotSoc), Monde
Mayekiso (MCM), Wandile Mzazi (ECTB), Albert Mfenyana (DEAET), Ingrid Nänni (NBI),
Khungeka Njobe (NBI), Nazeer Rawoot (NBI), Nicole Welz (WCNCB), Anton Wolfaardt
(WCNCB).
Project Interns: Ntobeko Bacela, Glynnis Barodien, Ismail Ebrahim, Daphne Hartney, Bongiwe
Magasela, Thembani Mabasa, Eugene Matthews, Jeffrey Manuel, Phumla Ndaba, Anastelle
Solomons.

4.     Quality assurance arrangements (see Annex 2)

The Project has been subject to peer review to meet GEF requirements and has been reviewed
independently from within the World Bank and the UNDP. World Bank safeguard requirements
will be applied by the World Bank's ASPEN Team. Specialist support will be provided from
within the World Bank and the UNDP to supervise project components during project
implementation.




                                                                                           33

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  m)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    annu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            entationm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        per                                                          ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ple

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (twice                                                      porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Im

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ssionsim                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              agen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 inationdro                                                                                                                                                                                          es

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           evaluation                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Co-                                                                                                                                                                                         Servic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                34
                                      valuatione                                                                                    ports:er                                                                                                                                                                             upervisions                                                     itys                                         formni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ngi                                 sn                                                                                                                                                                                      conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E.P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                and                                                                                         try                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Statistical

                                                                                                                                               coun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Biodiver                                       statistical                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onitorm.                           ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rican
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WB/UNDP                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E                              isionv                                                                                                                                                                                    porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ts                                                                                                                                        ittees                                                  Af

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 mm
                                                   Monitoring                                                                                      Sector/                                                                                                                                                                                 Joint                                                       State                                           Central                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C.                                Super                                                                                                                                                                                    Annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Repor                                                                                                                                           Co                                                South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          etsg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      prfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       interventio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          status                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  oject
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by                                                                                                                                                                                                             ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  edr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     easumsa(                                                                                                                                                                                                     ploymme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       etem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50%                                                                                                           doubles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         lateder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CFR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ste                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CFKehtni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sity-erivd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     incr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        easar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          bio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     loss                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   protected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lateder                                                                                                           otect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pr                        2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               people                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of

                                                                                                                   s:                                                                                                                                                        odiverbifo                                                                                                                      GDP                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t                                                                                                                        2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ity-sre                                                                                                           mofr                          iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                teda                         aly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 habitats)                                                      gionaler                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    exten                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mk

                                                                                                                     ndicatorI                                                                                                                                                         tear                                                                                                                                                                                                            erbm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAPE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               biodiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4000                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                           gener                       anyb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oved
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pr
                                                             Indicators                                                       Sector                                                                                                                                                       Reduced                                                           species                                                          Im                                                                             easedcrnI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Increase                                                                                                                   identified                                                                                   get:arT(                                                                                                                                                                                erbm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nu                          areas                                                                           Revenue

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          istic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            that                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                            ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Flor                                                                                                                                                            restored
                                                                                                                                                               oymplme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d,                                                                                      waya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      recognized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                                                                                                               conserve                                                                                    people
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                      higher                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                     nt,em                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Baseline#


                                                                                                                                                                            andh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ts                                                                                                                                      govern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 effectively                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                owtrg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              biodi                                                                                                                                                                    be                                                                                    benefi                                                                                                                                      by

                                                                                                                                                                                     otem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ousi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                   illw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  var
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s                                    ste
Summary                                                                                                                                                                                  pro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sy
                                                                                                                                                                                            nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nteme                                                                                                                                                               entmno                                                                                                                                                                 entm                                                                                  significant                                                                                                                             endorsed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ecosystem                                                                                                                 naga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fromde

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eshwater                                                                             M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     environ                                                                                      deliver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lish
       Design                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :                                                                        Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                   s
                                                                                                                                                                                               sustainability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   smtes                            mtes                                                                                                                                                            envirla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          will                                                                                                                            unitiemm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 estab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        natur                                                                                                                                                                rineam                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     be
                                                                       ectives               Goal:S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        zonedira-i

             Project                                                          Obj                  CA                                                                                                        talnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ograrP                                                                      nei                                                                          osycE                                                                                           oal:G                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    local
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sem                                   Mar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ional                                                                                     temsysocE                osycE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  toe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by
                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                    1:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     id                                                        ste                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2024                                                                                                                                                                  adjac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                figur
                                                                                                     elated                                                                                                        environ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eratpO                                                                                                             ountain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ar­1                             Coastal,­2                For­3                    M­4                          tegrnI­                                           ive:ctejbO                                ogramrP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E..                                                                arey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         appropriate,                                                                                                                              ed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and


                      Annex LOGFRAME                                               Hierarchy               Sector-r                                                                                                       Ensure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEG                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OP                                     OP                   OP                     OP                                 OP                                                 oballG                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A.P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bracme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.                                                                  By                                                                                                                                                                 Region                                                                                         wherever                                                                                                                              is                                                                              internationally                                                                                                                                                                              Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 porp                                            for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     su

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ges                                          s

                                                                   )la                                                                                                                                                                                                                    chan

                                                                      Goote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lationshiper                                                          vation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              utional

                                                                           ctiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                      instit                                                                                                       conser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35
                                                                               Obje                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                   tivea                                                                  itys

                                                                                   m

                                                                                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                      galeL                                   oper
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          co-                                                               biodiver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                term

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      onocE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        liancepm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Capen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reports

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cofo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    steraE                                                                                                                     entsme

                                                     ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             U                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                              ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    inspection                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Agre

                                                       repor                                                                                                                                                                                                        viewer                                           Mo.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              liancepm                                                                                                                           Capen                           porer



                                                            Project                                                                                                                                                                                                       Annual                                        C.A.P.Efo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     stere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Co                                                                                                                                   W                          indicator                                                                              Co-operative

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                         cim                                             ins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             no                                                                                                                                                                  .E.P.                                                                                                                 etem                                                                                                    and                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tely
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                    *)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       otected                                                                                                                                                                          vation                                                                                      #)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eco                                                                                                                                                                    C.A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 otection                                                                                                                         of                                         resource                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  habitats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   syste                                                                                                                                                                                              0004                                                           within                                                                       aseline:B(                                       appropria                                       conser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           according

                                                                                                                                                                                                    obligations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          between                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       are                                          itys                                                                              (Baseline:

                                                                                                                                                                                                               eirthteem                                                                                                                                                   itys                                                                                                                     butioni                                          natural                                                                                                                    s                                                                                                                  area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ved                                                                              5%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          species,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           contr                                            wable                                                                                                                entme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by                                               atht                                                                                                                                  50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       by                                          iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rityio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                biodiver                                    managed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     additional                                                          conser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rene                                                                                                                 agre                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 duceder                                            areas                                                                                                                                                                               aly

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          their                                                                                eases

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MoU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                protectedeht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    species                      (Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    incr                                       anyb

                            Indicators:t                                                                                                                                                                                   P.E.                                                                                                                                                            lypm                                      asuresem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      opor                                             use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     get:arT(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          data                            10%                                         species                                          protected                                                                               ectivelyfef

                                        pac                                                                                                                                                                                    A..C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  extent                                                                                                  etsg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co                                                                                                                           the                                                                                                                                                           co-operative         Agencies                                                                                                                                                                                                          tar                                                                                                                                                                                     by                                                                                                                                              ter
                                           m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ocess                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            pr          6)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                     standards,

                                            e/I                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            derfo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eases
                                               m                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                     itigationm                                                                        in                                           based                                              (Baseline:                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 datader                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       entingm                                                                                                in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vation                                                                                                  Year                                               tion                                                                                                                           rebm                                                                                                                                                                       establishedeb

                                                Outco                                                                                                                                                                                   Parties                                                                                                                                                   Developer                                            actpmi                                                                    easecrnI                                                                                                CFR                                                            rebm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    stem            of                                                                              incr                                                                                              nu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 activities                                                 the                                                             Nu                plemI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                opor                                                                           erbm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Increase                                                                                                  conser                                                                                    ecosy         end                                                  Pr                           areas                                             Nu                                            The                                       classified                                 objectives                                     international

                                                                                         for
                                                                                            n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         adapting


                                                                                             foundatio
                                                                                                      a                                      tivitiescacim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            statistics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pilotin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ousi

                                                                                                                                                          econo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                var
                                                                                                       develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ough
                                                                                                                                                               into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             thr                                                                                    ntem
                                                                                                              to                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                    CF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fromde
1                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2                                                                                                                                                                                               geanam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lish
                                                                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        enhanced
                                                                                                                cooperate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   estab
 Objective                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Objective                                                                                                      CFR                                                                                   ectivefef                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       be
          entm                                                                                                                                                             biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              entm                                                                                                     eht                                                                                         ble,a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    toe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                         institutions                                                  ingm
              Develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Develop                                                                                                   vation                                                                                      sustainrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             figur



                     Project                                                                                                         Capable                                               instreaam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project                                                                                                  Conser                                                                                          odelsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        is                                           la                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s                                                                                                  rityo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  other

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 continue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pri                                                                                                                                                                                                                atesdnam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   contr                                                                                    ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          society                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gioner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gener                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ble.a                                                                                                                                                                                                             entingm                                                   schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       legisl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            willing                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         avail                                                                                                                                                                                                               ple                                                       ats
e)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ciesn                                                                                                                                       strategie                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                        entm                                                                                  brame                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                           odelsm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                        ut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               civil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    advantage                                                                                                     alsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      im                                                        am
  ctiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                        age                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              their                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   have                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                               hips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ougho                                                                                                                                                                                                                     teram                                                                                                                                                                authorities                                                                                        to                                                        ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pr
      Obje
          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tingnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               activities                                                                                                                                                                take                                                                                                                                                         deamera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   align                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 resolution                             policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                      develop                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nertrap                                                                                                                                                                                      leb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                                                                                                                                                                                          law                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      capa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                        ses,                                                  eyth                                                                                                                                                                                                           ittedmm
            uts                                                                                                                                                                                                                         plemi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    objectives                                                                                   easar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  illingw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ousemti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itys                                           valued
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an                                                                                      are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ear                                                                                                                                                                      oups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                educa                                                                                        co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             objectives.                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n                                                                                                                         ivate                     at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.A.P.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                when
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36
               Outp                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E.                                                                                                                                           willing                                                                                                                                                                                  vation                                                                                                                                 is                            result                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         etg                                                                                                                                                                                                                      iate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s                                                         itys
                   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                               easingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tar                                                                                                   willing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           opr
                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.A.P.                                                                                                                                              to                                                                                      achieve                                                                                       conser                                                                                                                             There                              as                                                                             former                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.                                                       enforce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Planning                                                                                 authorities                                   C.                                                            to                                                                                                    ehT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cientif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  incr                                               populatio                                                                                                                       Public                 successf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ganizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suf                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                          undertake                                                  ehT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              are                                                                                                             appr                                           resources,                                                                                                            Provincial                                                                                        par                                                      biodiver


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 skills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CFR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on                                                                                      entingm                                                                                                                                                           NCB,C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              arningle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ple                                                                                                                                                             W                                                                                                                                                                                                      ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Education                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the

                                                                                                                                                                                          Uo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      terialsamt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ks,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of

                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Labour
                                                                                                                                                                                             ofsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uppors-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ofiles;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                              A.                                                                                                                                                         SANPar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ECTB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        records
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                        tsr                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dept                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                             t                                                                     TB,                                                                                                                            nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       reega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s                                                         ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lear                                                                                                                                                         teacher's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 learner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                         ducationE

                           repo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                      audit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          entm                                                                                                                                                          porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WC                                                                                                                                 ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        itys

                               ectj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ormf                                                                                                                                                                                              eyv                                                      isionv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /saless                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  der                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ogr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shiprebm
                                   Pro                                                                                                                                                                     Annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reports                                                                                           develop       agencies                                                                                                                                         Annual                                                                 DEAE                                                                                                                                   Per                                                                                                                                                                                              Sur                                                         Super                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.A.P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Or                                                                                                                                                      Reflected                                                                                                      pr                                                                                                                                                                       Visitor                                                                                   Centres                                                                                                                                                                             Me                                                            Biodiver

                                                                                                                                                 all                                                                                                                                                                 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      arey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ing                                                            sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Unit                                                                                                                                                                                                          ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rsit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            atht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           opt                                                                                                                                               0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                vation                                                                                                                                                            needs                                                                                 eetm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   arey                                                                                                                                                                                                            %08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CFR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                adopted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   per                                                                                                                                     30%                                                                                                                                                                        ve                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ad

                                                                                                                                                    eetingm                                                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          standar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      by                                                                                                                                                      nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0)                                                                                                         ncludi(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               arget:T(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CFR                                                                                                                      s                                                                                                                                                      that                                                                        for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conser                                                                                                                                                           skills                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   arget:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       biodi                                                                                                 50:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            am                                                                                                                                                        s                                                                                                                                          Baseline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            edg                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     getar                                                                                                                                                    nagema                                                    (T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     aket                                                                                                                                  get:ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NGF)(                                                                                                                                                                                                         that                                                           (T                                                                                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                    ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               get:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                                                    ovider

                                                                                                                                                           agencies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Tar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        larne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    getarT(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fiedi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fulfille                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ntse                                 Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            stem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   under                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *)                                                                                                                                                                                                               sy                                                                                                                                                   ation                                                                                              6,                                                                                                     ganizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ting/using                                                                                                 alsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   earyyb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Uo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           veer                                                                                                                                                            ident                                                                               003)2                                                     ework                                                                                                                                                                                                          enci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   that                                                                                                                                 activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ag                                                           nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   child                                                                                                                 centre                                                                                                                                                      icev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                    75%                                       iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (as                                                                                                                                           am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     requirem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ser                                                                                                                                                                                        aly



                                      sr                                                                                                                           entingmeplmi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cons                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ni                                                          Fr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               formnI                                                                                          earyyb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oups)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reques                                                                                               teramt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           on                                                                   *)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gr                                                                                                                                    oject                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                              ntsem                                                                                                                                                                                                seline:aB                                                                                                                                             enting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.                                                                                                                                                                                                         nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                society
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cape                                                  their                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 anyb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          get:arT(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      educati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nducted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  civil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         uppors-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 education                                                              approach

                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co                                                                                                                    year                                                                                                                                                                                                            ncea                           0)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      )0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          teachers                                                                                                    ner                                                                                )0                                                                                ease                                                                                                                    yits
                                          cai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    require                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ingetem                                    by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           unitymm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                itys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Baseline::m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #)                                                                                                                                                                resourced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 be                                                 Qualifications                                                                                                                                                                                                        im.EP.                                                                                                                                                                                                             dgeju
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tingar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 incr
                                             Ind                                                                                                                               C.A.P.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ormf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60%                                                                                                                                                  A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                whos                                                     as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            annu
                                                ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      skills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 itys

                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   iss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baseline:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       vation                                                                        Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                   biodiver                                                                                                                                                     biodiver                                                                                                                                                                          establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                  Outp                                                                                                                                   %                                                                                                                                                             obligations                                                                                            Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                Agencies                                  estate                                                                                                                         %                                                                              analy                                                     National                                                    get:arT(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co-ordinated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                          eed                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.P.                                                                                6;                                                                            trained                                                                                                                                                                                           6:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                            agr                         80%;:                                                                                                                        %                                                services                                  satisfaction                                                                                                          %                                                                                                                                                          schools                                                                                                                                          a                                                                               year                                                                               %                                                                                                         conser                                                                             year                                                                               %                                                                                                                     attend                                                              10%                                                                                        %                                                                   the                                                                     biodiver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                    and


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bioregional
                                                                                       activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hensiveerpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             edtti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by                                                                              nt.e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           comm                                                                                                                                                vation;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 integrated                                                                                                                                          ted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ousi
                                                                                                 conservation                                                                                                                                                              for
                                                                                                             oftnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   var
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        suppor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              titutions                                                                                                                                       RFC                                                                             ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      awareness                                                                                                                                                     iver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fromde
                                                      t:nenop                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ins                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 biod
                                                                                                                   align                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                               inform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            entalm                                                                                                                                                       to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nda
                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                            relevant                                                                                                                                    nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          estab
                                                                                                                        strategic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  butesi
                                                              Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    environ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be

                                                                ch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contr
                                                                  ea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         toe

                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           easr                                                                                                                                                       CFR

                                                                     fro                                                         Enhanced:1                                                                                                                                                          capacit                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Inc:2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   figur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                        ut     1                                                           ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ormf
                                                                          Outp  PDO                                                          Outp                                                                                                                                                           increased                                                                                                                                 conser                                                                                  per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Outp                                                                                                                                                    people                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        is                                           la                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s                                                                                                  rityo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 other

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 continue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pri                                                                                                                                                                                                                atesdnam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ear
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   contr                                                                                    ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          society                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gioner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gener                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ble.a                                                                                                                                                                                                             entingm                                                   schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       legisl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            willing                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        avail                                                                                                                                                                                                               ple                                                       ats
e)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ciesn                                                                                                                                       strategie                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                        entm                                                                                  brame                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                           odelsm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                        ut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               civil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    advantage                                                                                                    alsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      im                                                        am
  ctiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                        age                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              their                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   have                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                               hips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ougho                                                                                                                                                                                                                    teram                                                                                                                                                                authorities                                                                                        to                                                        ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pr
      Obje
          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tingnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               activities                                                                                                                                                                take                                                                                                                                                        deamera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   align                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 resolution                             policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                      develop                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nertrap                                                                                                                                                                                      leb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                                                                                                                                                                                          law                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      capa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                       ses,                                                  eyth                                                                                                                                                                                                           ittedmm
            uts                                                                                                                                                                                                                         plemi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    objectives                                                                                   easar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  illingw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ousemti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itys                                           valued
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an                                                                                      are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ear                                                                                                                                                                      oups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               educa                                                                                        co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             objectives.                                                         the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n                                                                                                                         ivate                     at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cour
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.A.P.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               when
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37
               Outp                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E.                                                                                                                                           willing                                                                                                                                                                                  vation                                                                                                                                 is                            result                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         etg                                                                                                                                                                                                                     iate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     s                                                         itys
                   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                               easingly                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tar                                                                                                   willing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          opr
                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.A.P.                                                                                                                                              to                                                                                      achieve                                                                                       conser                                                                                                                             There                              as                                                                             former                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.                                                       enforce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Planning                                                                                 authorities                                   C.                                                            to                                                                                                    ehT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cientif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  incr                                               populatio                                                                                                                       Public                 successf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ganizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Suf                                                                                                                                        or                                                                                                          undertake                                                  ehT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              are                                                                                                            appr                                           resources,                                                                                                            Provincial                                                                                        par                                                      biodiver


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 skills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CFR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on                                                                                      entingm                                                                                                                                                           NCB,C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              arningle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ple                                                                                                                                                             W                                                                                                                                                                                                      ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Education                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the

                                                                                                                                                                                          Uo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      terialsamt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ks,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of

                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Labour
                                                                                                                                                                                             ofsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uppors-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ofiles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                              A.                                                                                                                                                         SANPar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ECTB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        records
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of
                        tsr                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dept                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                             t                                                                     TB,                                                                                                                            nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       reega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s                                                         ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lear                                                                                                                                                         teacher's
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                learner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                         ducationE

                           repo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to
                                                                                                                                                                                                      audit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          entm                                                                                                                                                          porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WC                                                                                                                                 ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ands
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        itys

                               ectj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ormf                                                                                                                                                                                              eyv                                                      isionv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        /saless                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  der                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ogr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shiprebm
                                   Pro                                                                                                                                                                     Annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Reports                                                                                           develop       agencies                                                                                                                                         Annual                                                                 DEAE                                                                                                                                   Per                                                                                                                                                                                              Sur                                                         Super                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.A.P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Or                                                                                                                                                      Reflected                                                                                                     pr                                                                                                                                                                       Visitor                                                                                   Centres                                                                                                                                                                             Me                                                            Biodiver

                                                                                                                                                 all                                                                                                                                                                 6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      arey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ing                                                            sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Unit                                                                                                                                                                                                          ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rsit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           atht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           opt                                                                                                                                               0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                vation                                                                                                                                                            needs                                                                                 eetm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   arey                                                                                                                                                                                                            %08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    mrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CFR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                adopted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   per                                                                                                                                     30%                                                                                                                                                                        ve                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ad

                                                                                                                                                    eetingm                                                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          standar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      by                                                                                                                                                      nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0)                                                                                                         ncludi(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              arget:T(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CFR                                                                                                                      s                                                                                                                                                      that                                                                        for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conser                                                                                                                                                           skills                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   arget:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       biodi                                                                                                 50:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           am                                                                                                                                                        s                                                                                                                                          Baseline
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            edg                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     getar                                                                                                                                                    nagema                                                    (T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     aket                                                                                                                                  get:ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NGF)(                                                                                                                                                                                                         that                                                           (T                                                                                                                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                    ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               get:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pr                                                                                                                                                    ovider

                                                                                                                                                           agencies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Tar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        larne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    getarT(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fiedi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fulfille                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ntse                                 Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            stem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   under                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ner                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    standards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *)                                                                                                                                                                                                               sy                                                                                                                                                   ation                                                                                              6,                                                                                                     ganizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ting/using                                                                                                 alsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  earyyb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Uo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           veer                                                                                                                                                            ident                                                                               003)2                                                     ework                                                                                                                                                                                                          enci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   that                                                                                                                                 activity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ag                                                           nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  child                                                                                                                 centre                                                                                                                                                      icev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                    75%                                       iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (as                                                                                                                                           am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     requirem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ser                                                                                                                                                                                        aly



                                      sr                                                                                                                           entingmeplmi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cons                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ni                                                          Fr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               formnI                                                                                          earyyb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oups)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reques                                                                                               teramt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on                                                                   *)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gr                                                                                                                                    oject                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                school
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                              ntsem                                                                                                                                                                                                seline:aB                                                                                                                                             enting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.                                                                                                                                                                                                         nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                society
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cape                                                  their                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                anyb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          get:arT(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     educati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nducted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  civil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         uppors-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                education                                                              approach

                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co                                                                                                                    year                                                                                                                                                                                                            ncea                           0)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      )0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          teachers                                                                                                    ner                                                                               )0                                                                                ease                                                                                                                    yits
                                          cai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    require                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ingetem                                    by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           unitymm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               itys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baseline::m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #)                                                                                                                                                                resourced                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 be                                                 Qualifications                                                                                                                                                                                                        im.EP.                                                                                                                                                                                                             dgeju
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tingar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                incr
                                             Ind                                                                                                                               C.A.P.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ormf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60%                                                                                                                                                  A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                whos                                                     as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           annu
                                                ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      skills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                itys

                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   iss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baseline:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       vation                                                                       Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                   biodiver                                                                                                                                                     biodiver                                                                                                                                                                          establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                  Outp                                                                                                                                   %                                                                                                                                                             obligations                                                                                            Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                Agencies                                  estate                                                                                                                         %                                                                              analy                                                     National                                                    get:arT(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                user                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co-ordinated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of                                                          eed                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.P.                                                                                6;                                                                            trained                                                                                                                                                                                          6:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Annual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                            agr                         80%;:                                                                                                                        %                                                services                                  satisfaction                                                                                                          %                                                                                                                                                          schools                                                                                                                                          a                                                                               year                                                                               %                                                                                                         conser                                                                            year                                                                               %                                                                                                                     attend                                                              10%                                                                                        %                                                                   the                                                                     biodiver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                    and


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bioregional
                                                                                       activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hensiveerpm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       action
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             edtti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by                                                                              nt.e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           comm                                                                                                                                                vation;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 integrated                                                                                                                                          ted                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ousi
                                                                                                 conservation                                                                                                                                                              for
                                                                                                             oftnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  var
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        suppor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sity

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              titutions                                                                                                                                       RFC                                                                             ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      awareness                                                                                                                                                     iver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fromde
                                                      t:nenop                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ins                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 biod
                                                                                                                   align                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         the                                                                               inform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            entalm                                                                                                                                                       to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nda
                                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                            relevant                                                                                                                                    nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         estab
                                                                                                                        strategic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  butesi
                                                              Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    environ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        be

                                                                ch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contr
                                                                  ea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        toe

                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           easr                                                                                                                                                       CFR

                                                                     fro                                                         Enhanced:1                                                                                                                                                          capacit                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Inc:2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  figur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                        ut     1                                                           ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ormf
                                                                          Outp  PDO                                                          Outp                                                                                                                                                           increased                                                                                                                                 conser                                                                                  per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Outp                                                                                                                                                    people                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eyv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gs


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shopsk

                                                                                                              records                                                                                                                                                ents                                                                                                                          mis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    proceedin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wor

                                                                                                                     tax                                                                                                                                                 emerga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      toure
                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rkshopow                                                      viewer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           statisticsro                                                                                                                                  udiests                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cyn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                          age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gazette
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nduct                                                                                                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eetingsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                             viewer                                      E&                                                                                                                                                                            gisterer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              plans                                                                                                                                                              visit                                                                                                                                    ntem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                           review                                                        M                                                                                                                                                                                   eaar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tsro                                                                                                                   eaar                                                                                                                                                                                         eaar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                           authority                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ter     review1                         ofd         steys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eaar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           assess                                                                          rep                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntemn                                                                                                                                                                                                       38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cape                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d-i                                                   E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nagema
                                                                                                                                    Local                                                                                                                                               Code                                                                                                                          E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Records                                                                                                                                                                                                          Strategy               M        Phase                       Recor          M&                                                                                                                                                                   Protected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M                                                                                                                                                             Protected                                                                                                                                 Stock                                                                        MCM                                                                                                                 Protected                                                                                     Gover                                                                                          Protected

                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .

                                                                                                                                                                                                      eary                                                                                               getarT(                                                                                                                               by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P.E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   #)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  neira                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 local

                                                                                                                                                                                                          by                                                                                                    mis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nat
                                                                                                                                                                                                            100                                                                                                    tour                                                                                                                            t:egarT(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       get:arT(                                                                                                                               otected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            blished                                                                                                                                                               o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pr                                                                                                                                                                                                            with                                                                                                                 re-basedu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            80%)                                                                                                                                                                    into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   esta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for                                                                                                           tionala                                                                                                                                 neira                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        baseline:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M                                                                                                                             secured                                                                      vested                                                                                                                       and

                                                                                                                                                                                                               get:ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Target:                                                                                                                                                                    por                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                effective                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tification                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     operear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Area                                                                        nction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ter                                                                                             sponsibleerrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             over6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         der                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kogelber                                                                                                                               ed                                                                                                                                                                                                nservation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Char                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mis                                                                                                                                                             ingsetem                                                                                                                                                               incorearn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    un                                                                                                                                                              protected                                                                                                                                                            im                                                                                                              plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nte                                                                                                                         co

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     uct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                mis                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *)                                                                                   Protect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              itysr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tour                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ondCfo                                                                                                                                 leb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hwater
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rdination                                                                                                                                                               evaluatio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ed                                                                                                                                                                        esfr                                                                                                                                                       oped                                                                                                               toureer                                                                                                                            species                                                                                                                               rinea                                                                     nagemam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ce                                                                                                                      ciated                                                                               100%
MBM's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wh                                                                                                                                                                      baseline:                                                                                      M
     m                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Biodive
      fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a                                                                                                   odeCeht                                                                                                                             sponsierrof                                                                                                                                                            co-o                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           two                                                                                                                                                        devel                                                                                                                                                     *)                                                                                             oitedl                                                                                                                               gr                                                                                                                                                                                                       asso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ttenda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                consolidat                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             areas                                                                                                                                  exp                                     2002                                                                                                                                                                sourere                                                                                                                                                                                                        get:arT(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng                                                                                                                                      ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ine                                                                                                                                                                                                     year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kogelbe                                                                                                                                                                                                    directly                                                                               easar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             year
         benefiting                                                                                                                                                                                                                        adopting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       adopti                                                           0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                apply                                                                                                                                                              ersbmem                                                                                                                                                             onitorm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nte                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                         keyfo                                    over6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                                                         jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ste                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                estuar                                                                                                                                                                                                     end                                                                 protected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eary                                                                                                                                                              inshoreht                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                           of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   esses                                                                                                     ess                                                          linee                                                                      ss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oughrth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            otected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ected                                                                                                                                                                       two
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0)                                                                                                                                                  CIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nagemam                                                                                                                                                 2002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     by                                                                                      n                                                                              oflo                         end                                                                                                                                                                                   pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 over                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the                                                                                           mber                                                                                   tyi

                   landowners                                                                                                                                                                                                                           busin                                                                                                   sinesub                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ned                   M&                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          prot                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                         6                                                                                                                                                                                    visits                                                                                                                         abundance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       m                                                                                                                                        20%                                                                                    tioa                                                                                                                                                                                                            nu                                                                                                                                   2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.                                                                   busine                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         contr                          by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lear                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                  ior                                                in
                             ofrebm                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0)                                                                        of                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rgeal                                                                                                                                                                    nt,e                                                                                      eary                                                                                                         easrA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oclam                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               erbm                                                                                                      erbm                                                       year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                annu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                     erbm     Baseline                                                                                                                                                CCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                           tegya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               end
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     %                                                                                                                                                                                               Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rehensivepm                                                                                                                                                   per                                                                                                                                    get:arT(                                                                                     pr                                                                               ity                      unities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          increase                                                                                                                           ecoverr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                mis                                              aly
                                   Nu                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nu                          Baseline                                                                      Nu                                                           70:                                                                      Nu             eary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ssonseL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Three                                                                                                                                                                   nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                               Co                                     Protected                                                                         %                            10%                                                                                                  %                                        Ar                                                                                   galeL                                                                                                          mm                                                                                        increase
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    author                         co                                                                                              %                                                                                   tour
                                     d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  anyb
                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ytis                                                                                                                                                                      mis

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tour
                                        tested                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nageam                                                                                                                                                          am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ogr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  odiverbi


                                              designed,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             adaptive                                                                                                                                                       pr.EP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sustained,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n                                                                                                                                                                         is                                                                                                                                          ect

                                                       ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cienti                                                                                                                                                         C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nte                                                                                                                                          indir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vatio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eff                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                           nageam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conser
                                                                                                                                          etsg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nagemam                                                                                                                                           ect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      dir

                                                                                                                                              tar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tiona                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for

                                                                 tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             unic                                                                                                                                                 entationm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      etsg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tar                                                                                                                                                                    ffece                                                                                                                                        veireds

                                                                                                                                                 vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         der
                                                                     conserva                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    comm                                                                                                                                                      plemi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ity                                                                                                                                                                      st-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ousi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ior                                                                                                                                                                      co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            var
                                                                             rof                                                                       conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   stakehol
                                                                                sms                                                                          eetingm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ectiveffe                                                                                                                                                  andtnem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fromde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  butingi                                                                                                                                                             established,
                                                                                   echanim                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ination,dro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           contr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ented;m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               estab
                                                                                          asedb                                                                       butioni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            co-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  easar
                                                                                               et-                                                                           contr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            grated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nsolidated                                                                                                                                       plemiear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      toe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    inte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      co
                                                                                                  Mark
                                                                                                      :3                                                                          potential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nhancedE:4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             otected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       figur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pr:5                                                                                                                                                                  are                                                                                                                                               entm
                                                                                                        ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ut                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ut                                                                                                                                                                   CFR,

                                                                                                          Outp                                                                             indicate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Outp                                                                                                                                                 results Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Outp                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                            develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              reference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ovincial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ts
                                                                                                                                                       t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AsIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                porer
                                                                                                                                                        Repor
                                                                                                                                                             itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SDFsd                                                                                                                                           forn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                databases                                                        ngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  As                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     iesar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ove                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WCNCB,­                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cross-institutional


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               appr                                                                                                                                        decisio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FPfos                                                                                           ecordr                                                     onitor                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                  estu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            levels                                                                                                                                                            base
                                                                                                                                                                 Biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ofsd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CFR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  taaD                                                                                                                                                    Flow                                                        itys                                                                                                                                                  reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reco                                                                                               AF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39
                                                                                                                                                                           State                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Review                                                                                                                                           Recor       unicipalm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NCB/DEAETC                                                                                                                                                    oup
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fire                                                     Fire                                                                                             DW                                                        Biodiver                                                                                 W                                                               Annual                                                                                 gr

                                                                                  by                                                                                                                                                           by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          areas                                                               0)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fire

                                                                                    97%                                                                                                                                                          5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    desired                                                                                                                                          ologicalcE                                                                                                                                                    get:arT(s
                                                                                       arget                                                                                                                                                       arget                                                                                                                       rityo                                                            seline:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          #)
                                                                                            (T                                                                                                                                                          (T                                                                                                                          pri                                                                Ba

                                                                                              de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          easar                                                                                                                                                                                          6:r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pilotlo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            yea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                escribed                                                                                                                                                            ntr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pr                                                                                                                                                             co                                                                                                                                    Baseline:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ity                                                  ;                                                                                                                                          by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20%
                                                                                                ansform                                                                                                                                                           ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pr                                              nt)e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the                                                                                                                                                            fish

                                                                                                       untr                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                nicipalitiesum                                                          00%1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              inh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10%;n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   alien

                                                                                                           iningamre                                                                                                                                                     ntem                                            nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            omfrs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       calol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              withi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         fall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (Target                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *)                                                                                    verir                                                                                                                                                           in


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nageam                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               that                                                                                                                                                     ity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     addressing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ior                                                                                                                                                       nnowsim                                                                                                                                     (Target:x
                                                                                                                    areas                                                                                                                                                          n

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vatio                                             conserr                                                                 orkswem                                                       priorities                                                                                               tly                                                                                                                                                                                                                         heds                                                                                                                                                       pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Baseline:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  native
                                                                                                                         iority
                                                                                                                               pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fra                                                                                                                                                                explici                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tersaw                                                                                                                                                     thrfo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *)                                                                                                                      unde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         conser                                                                                                                                                                                       planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y                                                            year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         *)                                                                                                     health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ntlyer                                                                 entm                                                                  tion                                                                                             easra                    Baseline:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by                                                                                       tear                                          Baseline:*)                                                                                                    ease                                                                                                                                            ine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6:                                                                                                                                                                                         priorit
                                                                                                                                 lowland                                                                                                                                                       under                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  incr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       baseline:                                                                                                                       cur                                                                                                                                        erva                                                                                              rityo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     80%                                                                                        flow                                                 10%;<                                                                                                                                    Baseline:                                                                                                     estuar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    area                                                  ha                                                                Develop                                                                   cons                                                                                               pri                       arey                                                                                                                                                                                            three                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2002                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                         by                                                                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  get:arT(                                                                                    lowfo                                                                                                                                                        size                                  6*;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n                                                                                                                                            mofr                                     in

                                                                                                                                        uncultivated                                                                                over6                                                                 ease                                                 23,(6                                                               atialpS                                                                                                                                                                                               80%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Target:                                                                                                                                        eary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EIAs                                                                                                                                                                                                                        fires                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by                                                                                                                                             iss

                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                        incr                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             aly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                                      %                                                                                  eary                                                                     %                                                 eary                                                                    %                                                             incorporating                                                                                             %                       getarT(                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 %                                                       equencyfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             populatio                                                                                                                                       deviation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Deviation                                                Reserve                                                                                                      %                                200%                                                                                                           %                                   anyb
and
   edif

       identi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to

             landscapes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nte

                       edntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baseline#

                             frag
                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      heds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             water
                                   patches                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ousi

                                          antnmre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     edat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            var



                                                                                                                                                                                 society                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  integrear                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      fromde

                                                 priority                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lish

                                                         5-6                                                                                                                            civil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   estab
                                                            in                                                                                                                               with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    concer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           toe

                                                              Biodiversity:6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 figur
                                                                                                                                                                                                 conjunction

                                                                            ut                                                                                                                              inde                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Biodiver:7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ut

                                                                              Outp                                                                                                                              secur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Outp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                national,                                                                                                                                                                                                       assigns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ly                                                                                                   nal                                                                                   agencies                                                                                                                                                                             ocolsot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           providers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         at                                                                                                                                                                                                              clear                                                                                                 natio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  service
puts)

     Out                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ntemti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ntse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                       conser                                                                                                                                                                             sd                                 nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                       on

        tot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             levels                                                                                                                                                legislationd                                                                                               ty                                                                                           itys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 comm                                                         local                                                                                                                                                       an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         standar
           onenp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                           nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rangemar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            authorities
                m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                      policy                                                                                                                                                                                        biodiver

                 Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sponsibilier                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              consensus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ents                              ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               entation
                   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ovincial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ovincial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  plem
                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Institutional                                                            pr                                                                                                                                                  National                                                                                             legal                                                                                              pr                                                                                                                                                                         Agr                             inform                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Educational                                            reach                                                                                                             im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 noitau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            portsre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eval                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ntem                                                                                                                                                                                 ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tegya                                                                                                                                     aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   porer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                         ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 str
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                        ts                                                                                                                                           tegya

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ngir                                                                                                                                                                                                       porern                                                                                                                                                                                        assess                                                                                                                                                                                  nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  entm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nte

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                report                                                                                                  lop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ngi                                                                                                                                                                       porern                                                                                                                                          str


                        st                                                                                                                                                                                                                        onito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M                                                                                                                                                                                                       ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntem                                                                                                 deve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          assess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gemanam            t                                                                                                                           onitor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             institutional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M                                                                                                                                                                      ssioim                                                                                                                                       education

                          Repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         itys

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E                                                                     ts                                                                                                                                  isionv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             assess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ation                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    am                                                                                                                            P.E                                                            ts                                                                                                          isionv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A.
                               Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C.                                                                   porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ormf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Super                                                                                                                                                                                             Legal                                                                                                                                                                               Per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Needs                                                                                                Agency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          formnI         ogr                                                                                                                            A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                            C.                                                          porer                                                                                                           Super                                                                                                                                         Biodiver




                                      t)n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in
                                         onep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            iss
                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              aly
                                              co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               anyb
                                                each
                                                    erp



                                                       (Budget                                                  illionm                                                                                           illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     illionm                                                         illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               establishedeb
                                                                                                                       5.8                                                                                               0.315                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.95                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.48                                                            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to
                                                              Inputs:                                                     US$                                                                                                 US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              US$4.054                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         US$                                                            US$
                                                                                                                                                          rof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           at                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                             g                                                                                                                                                                                                   roles                                                                                                                                                     their                                                                                                                                                                                             sso                                                  with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          etsg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                acr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               with                                                           m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         itys


                                                                                                                                                              plannin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           etemot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   need
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                                    ;                                                                                                                                                                             ;tne                                                   .tnem                                                                                              allrof                                                                                                          tar                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                        areas;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Baseline#

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          progra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                  issues                                                                                                                                                                              eht

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      stitutionalin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                stemys                                             anceilpm                                                                                                                                                 tegiesa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ntem                                                                                 Agency                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nageam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ism                                              .sm                                              stemys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  biodiver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co                                                                                                                                                      str                                                                             nte                                                                    training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nagemam                                                                                                                                                     agencies                                                                                                        sm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tour                                                                                                 nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   protect
                                                                                                                                                                     tegica                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              transfer.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         statistics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                agencies                                                                                                                                                                                           nte                                                    and                                                                                                                                                      eht                                                                                                                                                         y                                                                                      assess                                                                                                                                  conjunction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        progra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Authority
                                                                     es                                                                                                    str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                     networkeda                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                           echanism                                                                                                      eaar                                               nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CFRno
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          outside                                                                                                                                                                                                          biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ousi

                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                         into                                                                                oni                                                                   ticipator                                                                                   needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    var
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ngid                                                                                                      tedc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                     education


                                                                       s/Activitit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ndatesam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     entmng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ns                                                                                 vat                                                                         par                                                                                                                                                                       Conserer                                                amrgo                                                          oftne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             knowledge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ali                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ote                                                                                                ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cusingof
                                                                                                                                                                                 tiona                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr                                                                                                                                                                         tershedaw                                                                                        entingmeplmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              plan                                                                                                                                                                      fun                                                                                                                                                     nagemam                                                                                                          mestys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     alsi                                                                                        and                                                                                           fromde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CFR                                                                                        legal                                                                                                                                           contributingeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Natu                                                                                                                                                                            into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         entalm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ainingtr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on                                                                                                              nte                                                                                                                                                                                                               tandings
                                                                                  ponen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ensure                                                                                                                                                concer                             As.                                              onserc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               iate                                                                                                        fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                activities;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               inform                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lish
                                                                                       m                                                                                              cooper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                        ormf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             opr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    teram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                    CM                                                                                                                          based                                                                                                                                                                            Capen                                                                                                           developm                                                                                                                                                                                                                   needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         skillsr                                                                                                                                                            nderu                                                                                                                                                                       environ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ntsem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    itys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           per                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          building                                                             the                                                     entrants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  appr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Edu                                                                                            estab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            teani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      be
                                                                                        ts/Subcon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    resolutioneth                CFR;fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            agencies                                                                                                                                                   biodi                         vefi                                           ectivefefrof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  steraE                                                                                                                ort                                                          wen                                                                                                                                                                                           ntem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sustainabilityl                                                                                              ge                                                                                            encies;ga                                                                   butioni                                         conservati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   level;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   supp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          naam                                                                 select                                                                                                    contr                                                                                           rehensivepm                                               nagemamn                                                   fosm                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  atio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;


                                                                                                 onep                        rengtheningst                                                  gencya-re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dissem                                                                                                                                                                                       toe
                                                                                                                                                                                                     int                                                                                                      nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               require
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                     m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;setadnam                                                                                                                          gener                                                                                                                                    ;ygetar                                                                                                                                                                                                                         aining,tr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                                               institutional                                                                                                                                 capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                      retain                                                                                           financia                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                            coa                                                                                                                                                                                                            ducatione                                                                                                                                                 CFR                                                                             co-ordinated                                                                         site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           entm                                                                ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               entingm                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                 echanism                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                 Hospitality
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                St                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                inform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     awar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                figur
                                                                                                      Co                                  ionalt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         por                                                                                                                                                        aket                                nt;em                                                                                                                                                                                                            AT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   kplans
                                                                                                                                                                                                        nhanceE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sustainability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     vation                                                                                       Facilitate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ovide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               oject                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Assess                                                  agreed
                                                                                                                                                Institu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       conser
                                                                                                        Project                                        1.                                                      11.                                                                                                         conser                                                                                           1.1.2                   for                                                                                                                             1.1.3                                                                                                                                                                            Develop41.1.                                           entingmeplmi                                                                          CAPE                                                                    cornI51.1.                     wor                                                    Build

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.2                                                              Under12.1.                           assess                                              Undertake2.2.1                                                                         establish                                         Conduct          THE                                              Facilitate                                                     attract
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32.1.                                                                1.2.4                                                                                    entmpolevedslliksekatrednU5.2.1                             Develop

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.3                                                  Deter13.1.                      conservation                                                              entifydI23.1.                 plemirof                                                                   Assess33.1.                                                                                           tablishsE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41.                                                       Pr14.1.                                         Develop                                                                                                                                                          Raise                                                                                  benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Conservation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.4.2                                                                                                  2.                                                      12.                                                                                                                                                                      Facilitate11.2.                                                                      Pr                                                  Develop21.2.                                                                                    Touris
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                                                                                                                                        Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ylpm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d                                                                                                                                                                              itynumm                                                                                            hips                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eaar                                                                                  nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                  are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         an                                                                                                                                                                                   co                                                                                              nertrap                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ratee                                                                           the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Marine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         negotiated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           actice                                                                                                                               fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gemanam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ntem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     p                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    co-op                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              otected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ully                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      co-operate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to
puts)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      adopt                                                 Pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                otected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kogelberg                                                                                                                                                                                nageam
     Out                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              develo                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   entation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                   entm                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ng                                                                                                       participatory                                                                                                                                                               rights                                                                                       successf
        tot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the                                                                              willing                                                                                                                        ntse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  siness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bu                                           Codesfo                                                                                                                      willingness                                                                                               ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                         prior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   enciesga                                                                         plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ben
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ca                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                   are                                                                                           edvo
           onenp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                             the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    im
                m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ntse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                        tegya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ndatesam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            engage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         oups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         arr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gr                                                                                                                                                                                                 Area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                 Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ovisions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stability                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ent,m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Flats                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    solvederyrla                                                                                                                          surroundi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                access                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ngema


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             unities                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngi
                   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            illingness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ganizations
                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                                               with                                                                                                                      Availability                                                                                             or                                          ngemarar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                butei                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                user
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           illingness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Social                                              Cape                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                            contr                                                      2000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                galeL                                                                                                                                                                       cle                                                                                                                                unitiesmm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            establish                                                                           are                                                                                                                                      Co                                                                                                          willing               processes                                                                                                                                    Changes                                                                                          protected                                                    with                                                                                                            Co                                                                               Protected                                                                                      develop                          onitorm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rategyst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nceam


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               etskram                                                                                                                                                               aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   alsi                                                                                                                                      aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      or

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Perf

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                              ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ts                                                                                                       eetingsm                        teram                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                plans                                                                                                                                                                        t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Unit                                                           and                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngi                                                                                                                                                                             porern                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            plans

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nationi                                                                                                                                                         reportsm                                                                                                    t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               entm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             repors

                        st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o-enterprises
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ec                                                                                                                                                                     icesvr                                                                                                                                                   ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          porern                                                                                                                                         tegya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           porern                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Strategic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lope
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 str
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   onitor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                                                                                                                                                                            ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 stem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        syste                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            analy               se                                                                                                                                                    onitor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rdination                                                                                                                                                                                                   onitor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      dev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dissem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  actice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ssioim                                                                                                         CCC                                                                                                                                                                           M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 area
                          Repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Co-o                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eaar                                                                                                                                                                      nte                                                                                                                                                                         eaar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                      ts                                                                                                                      isionv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                unity                                                                                                                                                                        entalm                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                     ts                                                                                             t                                                                                                                                                                          P.E                                                                            ts                                                                                                                                                                             isionv                                                                            E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P.E                                                                                   ts                                                                                                                                              isionv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.
                               Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.                                                    porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Super                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Knowledge                                                                                                                                                       Certification                                                                                                  Code                                                                                         Co                                                        porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Repor               environ                                                                                                                                                    C.                                                                          porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   unicationmm                                                                                                                                      A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Super                                                                         C.A.P.                    Minutes                                 Co                                                                                                                                      C.                                                                                 porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nagema
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Super                                                                                                                                                                          Protected                                                                                       Protected                                                                      M                                                                                                                                                                      Protected




                                      t)n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                         onep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iss
                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   aly
                                              co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    anyb
                                                each
                                                    erp



                                                       (Budget                                                                                                               illionm                                                                                                                  illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                    2.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                27.72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to
                                                              Inputs:                                                                                                                   US$                                                                                                                  $US1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  US$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rof                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                sm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              level                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                 on                                                                                                    of                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              port                                                      vationers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                         Par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              otected                                                                                                          fisher                                                                                               Marine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ste
                                                                                                                rials.team                                                                 y                                                       smisn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           entmti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             services                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nancialif
                                                                                                                                                                                            m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  mechanis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               facilities

                                                                                                                                                                                             ono                                                        echam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nicipalum                                                                              ghtsir                                                                                                                                                             business                                                                                                    mm                                                                                       Sup

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ringo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       onitorm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             National                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                          use                                                                   ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     asedb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the                                                                                 entm                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                    corof                                                                                     nt;em                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    onitorm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ntem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   easar                                                                                                                                                                                                                   estuar                                                                                                     including                                                                                            Kogelberg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAs;                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sm
                                                                                                                             to
                                                                     es                                                                                                                                                                                      scalif                                                                                                                                                                                  ecological

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                          rket-am                                                                                                                                            atsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pacts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nagea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            im                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Monit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       etg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                     Peninsula                                                                                                                                                                                                ucture                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ousi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     targets                                                                                   nageam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   inateddro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eas;ar                                                                                                           two                                                                                                           eas,ar                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           var
                                                                                                                               acherste                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                        echanism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ng                                                                       services;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co-                                                                      am                                                                                                                                              areas                                         otected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                in                                                                                                                                                       ectivenessfef                                                                                                              ncea
                                                                       s/Activitit                                                     and                                                        biodiversityeht                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               mis                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      asedb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          existi                                                                                                                                        anishcem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sesirp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             otected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           adabletr                                                           conservation.                                                                                                                                                                                             an,rte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             enter                                                                                                                                                                          nageam                                                                                                                                                                                      auditing;d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  frastrni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nt,e                                                                    ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pr                                                                                                                                              tedc                                              key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 otected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ntem                                                                                                              ormfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tour                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fromde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                  ponen
                                                                                       m                                                                                                                                                                                   et-kram                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      evaluati                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             asedb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lessening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Char                                                                                  biodiver                                                      o-crim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            preg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ntsem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          prote                                                                                                                                                         lar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    touris                                                                                                                   lansp                                                                                          lish

                                                                                                                                          educatorsla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         cim                                                                                                                                                                                                    ecologicalrof                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                               to                                                                                                                                                                              Managem                                                                                                                                                    ination;dro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                          ity                                                                                                eshwaterfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nageam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s                                                                                                    itys                                                                                        s                                                                       acts.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       co-                                                                                                                                                          nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               neiram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ior                                                                                                       ity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tegica                                                                                                                                                   developed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 no                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                                                                                        ination,dro                                                                                                                                                                                           nageam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       arrange                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               estab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                         incentives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ion,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       oftne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           contr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            consolidatin                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                        ior                                                                                                                ior                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nable                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PAs;                                                                   sponsibleer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be
                                                                                        ts/Subcon                                                    entm                                                          foundationse                                                   design                                                                                                                                                                                           eco                                                                                                                       ectivenessfef                                                                                                                                      et-kram                                                                               bateser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                co-                                                                                                     am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 icationnumm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Stra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     am                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ogr                                                                        co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ee                                                                                                         pr                                                                                                                 pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAs;                                                                                        delom                                                                                                   for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an                                                                                                                                                                                                             paym                                                              pilot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Biodiver                                                                                 industrie                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rdinato                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                financial                                                                    pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        thr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    entm                                                                             ea.rA                                                                                 sustai                                                                                                              test                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       toe
                                                                                                 onep                                                                                                                          th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 echanismm                                                                                                       a                                                                                                                                           entm                  nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ogr                                                                                                  ogrrp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         aket                                                                                                                                        potentiale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   two                                                                                                                two                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                         target                                                                                                                  pr                                                                         plans                                                                                           developm                                            PAs;                                                                   PAs

                                                                                                     m                                                   environ                                                                                                                                                                                                                        vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pilot                                                                                                                                               tesar                                                                                                                                                                                              itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 pr                                                                                                     aket                                                                                       aket                                                                  aket                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              p                                                                                            figur
                                                                                                      Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CFR;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           entifydI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                 g.e.                                                                     investigate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  different                                             develop              nagemam                                                                                                    Co-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               anagem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                     aket                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Under                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      areas;                                                                                                                                                                            co-                                                                         Protected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  three                                                                                                               other                                                                                                                                                                                                                            target


                                                                                                        Project                                                 Train31.2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    conser                                                                                    Undertake          the                                                                                                               Evaluate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Develop                      biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Under                                                                                      Under                                                                 Under                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tablishingsE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Developing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   for                                                                                                                                                                         Facilitate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Establishing
                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                                 3.                                                    13.                                                                                                                                                                                           3.1.1                                                                                                                               3.1.2                                                                                                                                     Design31.3.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23.                                                                                              Develop12.3.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ograrP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.                                                 1Under4.                                                                                                  21.4.                                                                                      31.4.                                                                 41.4.                          evaluation;                              11.4.                                                                                                                                          Unleashing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.                                              15.                                                                                              Consolidate11.5.                                                                                           tablishsE21.5.                                                                                                     tablishsE31.5.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25.                                                                                                        Design12.5.                                                                                                                                                 Adapt22.5.                                                                                           Develop32.5.                                                                                                 5.2.4                                                                                                        Develo52.5.                                                                                      Baseline*

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  itys                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                          nte                                                                                                  ns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ear                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           build
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          globally                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   priority
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              toods                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 conduct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       concer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nteme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      biodiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                     d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gemana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntemitmm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M                                                                                                   itys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ving                                                                                             under                                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      techniques                                   threat                                                                                                           nagam
puts)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  entm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               favour                                                                      land                                                                                                       conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 skills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     studies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      shif
     Out                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the
        tot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          emiger                                                                    ivate                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pr                                                                                                                                                                                                    itysrev                                                                                                                                 unities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          biodivere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mmoc                                                                                                                                                                      cient                                                                    ning                      unicipalmla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Catch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     gness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     inS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     recognition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aliens                                                                                                                                                                                            d.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 loc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IA                                                                                                                                                                              iendlyrf-
           onenp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ifier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tance                                                                                              biodi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  suffi                                                                   plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          willin                                                                                                                                                                            incorporat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               addres
                m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ouse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a                                                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to                                                                                                    jurisdiction                                                                              is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42
                 Co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           yt                                                                        vation                                                                                                     pormi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     era                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eht
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       is                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rega
                   m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CMAs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              entallymno                                                                                                                                                        legal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oper
                    (fro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pr                                                                        conser                                                                                                    ehT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      significant                                                                                                                               authorities          areas                                                                                                                                                      There                                                                     conser                         capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  There                                                                      par                                                                                                       agencies                             into                                                                                                                                                      iseerhT                               act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                   nvirE                                   available                                                                                                            The                                                                        estuaries



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   stroper                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aluationvE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ycnega                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ts


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                                                                porer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                 ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ts                                     nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           porer                                                                                                                                                                                tegya

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ngi                                                                                                                                                                                porern                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      porer                                                                                                                                ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tionav                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     porern                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t                                   str


                        st                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                             association                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tegyarts                                                                                                                                                                                nte

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   onitor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                                                                                                                                                                               ssioim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           porerlo

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conser
                          Repor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         planningPSI                                                                                                                            icev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    onitor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ssioim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 contr                             nagemam

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.E                                                                                      ts                                                                                         isionv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cales                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E                                                                                                  ts                                                                                                                                                          isionv                             entm                                            entsm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nagemam                                                                                                                                            fish                                ine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A.
                               Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C.                                                                                    porer                                                                                          Super                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fine-                                                                                                             SDF                                                                                                                             tensionxE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C.                                                                                                porer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nagemame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Super                            Catch                                            agree                                                                                                                                                                         Fir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SAI                                                                                                                                             Alien                              tuarsE




                                      t)n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in
                                         onep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                iss
                                             m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aly
                                              co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   anyb
                                                each
                                                    erp



                                                       (Budget                                                                                                                          illionm                                                                                                       illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           illionm                                                                          illionm                                                                                                               illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                illionm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        illionm                                                                                                                                                                  establishedeb
                                                                                                                                                                                               9.5                                                                                                           0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8.8                                                                              7.04                                                                                                                  3.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to
                                                              Inputs:                                                                                                                             US$                                                                                                           US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               US$                                                                               US$                                                                                                                  US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     US$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        US$1.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tne                                                                                                                                       ce                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                              nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         eht                                                                                                                                                                      dna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  spatial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ntemn                                                                                                                                                                                                          palities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nagemam                                                                          m                                                       sourer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Baseline#
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    asureem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    anpl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              freshwater                                                                                                                                                               based,

                                                                                                                                                                                                     areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      unicim                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nagea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nagemam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m                                                       water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    noitneverp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 am

                                                                                                                                                                                                          ty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                kinga                                                                                                             overg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ogr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                          vation                                                                 ativeerp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reserve"
                                                                     es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      busines                                                                                                                                                                    SAI                                                                                                         priority                                                                                                                                                                  pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ni                                                                                                                                                                  nte                                                                                                                                                                          ousi
                                                                                                                                            s;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               var
                                                                                                                                              am                                                            priori6                                                                                                                                                                    is;s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Species
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 coo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                     planning
                                                                                                                                                ogr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        analy                                                                     lines.ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           conser                                                                                                                                            tershedaw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                    rof                                                                                                                fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 decision-m                                                                                                            anspl                                                                                                                                                                                                            capacity                                                                                                                                                                                              to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Alien                                                                    y

                                                                       s/Activitit                                                                 pr                                                                sity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    gui
                                                                                                                                                     ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                liena
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dual                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nagemame
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         iver                                                                                                                                                                   vation                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vati                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            str                                                                                                                                                               llence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nvasiveI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ve                                                                                          ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fromde

                                                                                  ponen                         PAs;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          land-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    indivi                                                                                                                                                                                      ntemitmm                                                            pilot                                                                                                                                ntem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         into
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                         intos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nageam                                                                                                                                                                cologicalE"eth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                         concer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              exce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  lish
                                                                                       m                                                                                                                                     biod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nt;e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                  nte

                                                                                                                    target                               nageam                                                                                                         consere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  estuarin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conser                                                                       plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     itysr                                                                                                        conser                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                           cos                                                                 icesv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CFR;                                                                                     invasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nageam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 estab
                                                                                                                          for                                  tyi                                                                                                             cals                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gulation;ere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itysre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                        of

                                                                                        ts/Subcon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cales                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      us                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                    ine                                                                   CFRa                   studies                                                                                                                                                  be
                                                                                                                                                                  ior                                                            securing                                          fine-
                                                                                                                                                                     pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fine-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M                                                                  SAI                                                                                                                                                              centres                        nte                                                                                                                               .sm                                                  estuar                                                                 test                      case                                                                                                                                                toe
                                                                                                 onep                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             exte                                                                           bio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  control

                                                                                                     m                                                                 entm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                           ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CFR;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ating                                                                                                            ate                                                                                                                                                                                                        institutional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s.em                                                                                                                                                                             nte

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            oving                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sourer                                                                                                    .m                                                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 por                                      ste                                                                                                                                      oving
                                                                                                      Co                     sustainability                                ple                                                              fying                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tegrnI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                priority                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sche                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sy                                                                                                                                         pr                                                                eate                                                                                 entire                                                                                                   nagemam                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             figur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  oving
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ecosy                                                                                                                                               levanter


                                                                                                        Project                                                               Im62.5.                                                                                                   akingtrednU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Identi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.                                          16.                                                                                                                aketrednU11.6.                                                    vationresnocpoleveD21.6.                                                                                                                                                                                                        cales                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nagemam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   watershed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nagema
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          biodive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          landowner                                                                nsion                                                                      iversityd                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ectivenessfef                                                                            ce                                                          biodiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             fine-                                                                                                                       land-                                                                                                                                        eas.ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26.                                                                                                      tegrnI12.6.                                                                            planning;                         ngthenertS22.6.                                                                             Build3.2.6                                                                                                                                                                                easingcrnI                                                               Build                                                                                                                               prmI                                                       nagemam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36.                                                                 13.6.                                                                    Integrating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7.                                             17.                                                                                                                                                                           Increase11.7.                                                                    water                                                           cornI21.7.                                                                                                                                                                            Im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27.                                                               Cr12.7.                                                                                                                                                        Establish22.7.                                                                                                            Pilot32.7.                                                                                      prmI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37.                                                            Design13.7.                                                                                                                                                                    Baseline*

Annex 2:        Incremental Cost Analysis

1. National development objectives

South Africa is strongly committed to the pursuit of sustainable development. The country's
primary challenge is to ensure social and economic upliftment, and in particular, to create
new employment opportunities and systematically address the root causes of poverty. The
GoSA is highly committed, within this context, to biodiversity conservation. However, the
country's astonishing species richness and biogeographic turnover amplify the magnitude of
its conservation challenge. While the GoSA appropriates substantial funding directly to
conservation management, this is insufficient to establish a biologically representative
conservation estate on public, private and community lands, mainstreamed into the
sustainable development framework. The State is seeking financial and technical assistance
from the international community to advance its global conservation agenda by defraying
the high one-time costs associated with building the necessary institutional, social and
economic capital and management frameworks. The aim is to align such investment with its
broader sustainable development strategies and programs.

2. Global environmental objectives

The CFR is an exceptionally rich storehouse of biodiversity, characterized by high floristic
species richness, beta and gamma diversity, fragility and irreplaceability. One of six
recognized Plant Kingdoms, the CFR is the only Plant Kingdom located entirely within the
boundaries of a single nation. The region's uniqueness makes it one of the highest global
conservation priorities and South Africa shoulders a special responsibility for its
stewardship on behalf of the global community. There is presently, however, a very real
risk that accelerating anthropogenic pressures on the system, if left unchecked, will result in
a loss of biodiversity. The GoSA is committed to conserving the CFR's biological heritage
but lacks the financial and technical resources and know-how needed to fully operationalize
a comprehensive, performance-driven conservation program. A national Programmatic
Framework for conservation action, known as Cape Action for People and Environment
(C.A.P.E.) has been developed. The Global Environmental Objective of the Program, which
underpins the rationale for GEF assistance, is to ensure that by the year 2024 a
representative sample of the CFR's biological diversity is effectively conserved, and where
appropriate is restored.

3. Baseline scenario

The principal threats to biodiversity in the CFR stem from habitat conversion, colonization by
alien invasive species, uncontrolled fires, and unsustainable offtakes of certain commercially
important wild resources. These threats are explicated in Annex 7. The CAPE 2000 Strategy
has identified a suite of interventions needed to arrest anthropogenic pressures and protect
areas of global conservation importance. The baseline course of events, over six years
without the C.A.P.E. and GEF support may be characterized as follows:

Institutional strengthening: The GoSA is embarking on a series of institutional reforms to
clarify mandates, roles and structures within and between government agencies. However,
there are no plans to address systemic and institutional capacity weaknesses for the
management of biodiversity at the bioregional scale, implying that the conservation
functions of different institutions will remain poorly co-ordinated. Various conservation
agencies would appropriate funds for skills development (US $1.07 million); this is



                                               43

inadequate, relative to need, in terms of creating the skills set required for effective
implementation of the CAPE 2000 Strategy by government and non-government agencies.
A further US $2.85 million will be allocated to data base management, including for the
procurement of hardware and software and the development of decision support systems.
However, data management systems would remain poorly co-ordinated, with little quality
standardization.

Conservation education: A total of US $0.63 million would be allocated for curriculum
development and teacher training. However, no specific provision is being made to
integrate CFR specific biodiversity issues into the curricula, nor to develop quality
materials dealing with these issues. A total of US $0.58 million would be expended on
education by conservation authorities. This would be dedicated towards designing and
updating visitor interpretation materials. As interpretation centres are located mainly in
protected areas and botanical gardens, the exposure of rural communities and
disadvantaged groups will be limited. Finally, a sum of US $0.75 million would be
appropriated towards general environmental education, dealing mostly with `brown issues'
such as waste management.

Establishing the foundations for the biodiversity economy: A total of US $15 million would
be expended on environmental impact assessment for major private sector developments.
General environmental standards would be utilized, which are poorly tuned to specific
biodiversity conservation needs. Further, such environmental impact mitigation would
largely be pursued through `command and control' mechanisms, rather than through
employment of market mechanisms, and voluntary compacts with key businesses. A
sizeable investment is planned to develop small, medium and micro enterprises. The total
anticipated budget is US $16.47 million.

Program co-ordination, management and monitoring: An effective program co-ordination
mechanism would be lacking as needed to ensure synergies between the conservation
activities of different government and non-government agencies. This will result in a sub-
optimal utilization of scarce financial and technical resources. A number of biodiversity
monitoring initiatives would continue, including helicopter-based game counts and transect
surveys in selected protected areas (cost: US $ 3.5 million). The utility of these initiatives
would be limited as they do not make adequate provision for socio-economic assessments
nor for ecoregional scale consolidation. A more comprehensive system is needed to monitor
pressure, state and response.

Unleashing the potential of protected area management: PA management authorities
(SANParks, WCNCB, DEAET, DEAT) would allocate sizable resources towards the
recurrent costs of managing protected areas (mostly terrestrial sites) throughout the CFR
(US$ 59 million). This allocation would support a public PA estate of 10,800 km2, relative
to a target of 16,632 km2, needed to effectively conserve a biologically representative
sample of biodiversity A further 22,288 km2 of private lands will need to be managed for
conservation. A total of US$ 5.4 million would be allocated to the development of nature-
based tourism activities in a small number of protected areas. Tourism development would
concentrate in a few sites with little diffusion, meaning that prospects for banking on the
sector to provide conservation livelihoods in areas of biodiversity significance will remain
poor. Also, there is little guarantee that any investment in such areas would be compatible
with or contribute to site-specific objectives. A further US $1 million would be allocated
towards the purchase of land. Land would be acquired in an ad hoc manner, without
necessarily reflecting the highest conservation priorities. Thus while the PA system is



                                              44

expected to gradually expand, it is unlikely that expansion would facilitate the
consolidation of PAs across critical ecological landscapes. Many key ecosystems would
remain under-represented in the network, including in particular, wetlands and coastal
areas. Furthermore, management jurisdictions would continue to be vested in several
institutions, leading to programmatic overlap and operational inefficiencies.

A total of US $14.8 million would be allocated by DEAT and other responsible authorities
towards the management of inshore fisheries. Management would be effected through
traditional means under a weak enforcement framework, including stock assessments, gear
restrictions and seasonal closures, rather than through ecosystem-based approaches. There
is an unmet need to develop multiple-use marine protected areas to accommodate
biodiversity conservation objectives while allowing sustainable fishery utilization.

Identifying and securing biodiversity in priority areas: A sizeable investment is planned in
the development of Integrated Development Plans at the municipal level (est. US $14.6
million). These include a spatial component, and are intended to provide a mechanism for
coordinating development investments in infrastructure and services at the local-level.
However, limited funding would be available for fine-scale planning, to map the precise
location of important land parcels. The lack of precise maps and essential planning
capacities would result in a weak reflection of conservation objectives and priorities in the
IDPs. This would compromise efforts to mainstream biodiversity management into the
agricultural sector. Finally, an estimated US $2.6 million would be expended in
strengthening local extension services. However, there would be very limited capacity in
these outfits to service conservation needs. Further, development and implementation of
public- private sector models to incorporate land into conservation use would be neglected.

Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management: The State is making
significant investments in watershed and water resource management. The total baseline
allocation is estimated at US $ 75.6 million. This includes allocations for the control of
alien woody plants in catchments, hydrological assessments, demand-side management and
pollution control. There is a major unmet need to integrate key biodiversity conservation
imperatives into the baseline program. This includes expanding the focus of invasive alien
species (IAS) control to include currently un-targeted species and improving the cost
efficiency of existing control measures, such as through induction of bio-control methods,
to free up funds to address currently uncontrolled groups of IAS. Further there is a need to
make proper provision for ecological reserve requirements in critical wetlands, in allocating
water. Finally, there is a need to address biodiversity conservation management needs in
estuaries, which have hitherto been neglected.

Baseline scenario costs. The total baseline scenario costs are estimated at US $213 million
over years to be provided by different sources of funding (see Tables 1 and 2 below). It is
important to note that the baseline estimate is conservative. The program preparation team
were of the view that whilst significant private land and private sector initiatives are
underway in the CFR there is no reliable way of assessing the conservation effectiveness of
these investments. Therefore, they are excluded from the baseline calculations.

4. GEF alternative

This proposal is one of three complementary initiatives, to be supported by the GEF, under
the national C.A.P.E. Program, aimed at realizing the afore-mentioned Global
Environmental Objective. C.A.P.E. will implement priority actions identified in the Cape


                                             45

Action Plan for the Environment (CAPE 2000 Strategy), completed in September 2000,
over and above the baseline scenario so as to progressively mitigate human-induced threats
to the CFR's globally significant biodiversity. C.A.P.E. is being implemented in three
distinct phases. The first Phase of six years aims at creating the underlying policies,
institutional framework and capacities needed to implement the CAPE 2000 Strategy, as
well as to pilot new conservation approaches (site based interventions) to address the
spectrum of conservation needs and management challenges in the CFR. This project would
strategically support a number of Phase 1 interventions with a view towards assuring
effective execution of C.A.P.E and fostering conditions for replication. Two development
objectives are specified, with seven components:

Development Objective 1: Capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation for
mainstreaming biodiversity in the CFR into economic activities

Component 1: Strengthened institutions (UNDP) GEF alternative US $ 5,8 [GEF funding
US $1,4]

The GEF would provide incremental funding to ensure better alignment between the
operations of different institutions in advancing the CAPE 2000 Strategy. This includes the
integration of biodiversity management objectives into strategies, business plans, and
annual work plans, such as for the 5 new Catchment Management Agencies [GEF: $0.315
m]. GEF funding is being requested to design and deliver a comprehensive training
program for conservation skills upliftment; significant co-financing is being supplied by
THETA [GEF: $0.554 m; Co-fin: $ 3.5 m]. A medium-term financial sustainability plan for
biodiversity conservation operations in the CFR would be prepared [GEF: $0.13 m; Co-fin:
$0.82 m]. Finally, information management activities would be consolidated and improved,
to enhance the utility of data and diffusion of knowledge to end-users [GEF: $0.4 m; Co-
fin: $ .08 m]. Funding for this component is wholly incremental to the baseline for
institutional development.

Component 2: Conservation education (UNDP) GEF alternative US $1,1 [GEF funding US
$0,6]

The GEF would fund efforts to co-ordinate conservation specific education programs [GEF:
$.37 m], and for the preparation of resource materials for schools and educational centres and
associated teacher training [GEF: $0.23 m; Co-fin: $0.173 m]. These activities are
incremental to the baseline. Co-financing ($0.34) has been secured to impart conservation
education to students at schools and educational centres.

Component 3: Establishing the foundations for the biodiversity economy (WB) GEF
alternative US $2,37 [GEF funding US $1,21].The GEF would provide funding to activities
aimed at lessening the impacts of business on biological diversity by facilitating the
development of innovative voluntary market incentive measures (codes of conduct,
certification systems, procurement compacts), and public-private partnerships with key
enterprises, to mainstream biodiversity conservation objectives into the wine, wheat tourism
and ostrich industries. [GEF: $0.21 m; Co-fin: $1.12 m]. Finally, GEF would provide funding
to identify and design promising market-based mechanisms and fiscal incentives for
conservation [$1.0 m].




                                              46

Component 4: Program co-ordination, management and monitoring (WB) GEF alternative
US $1,67 [GEF funding US $0,95]

Activities are incremental to the baseline. The GEF would provide funding to staff and
operate the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit, to co-ordinate interventions spearheaded under the
program [GEF: $0.71 Co-fin $0.494 m]. A monitoring and evaluation system would be set up
to track conservation processes and impact in advancing the Program as a basis for
facilitating adaptive management [GEF: $0.15 m; Co-fin: $0.1 m]. Finally, a communications
system would be set up for the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit [GEF: $0.09 m; Co-fin: $0.083
m]. These inputs are incremental. Discussions are underway to increase government
contributions.



7.4 Development Objective 2: Conservation of the CFR enhanced through piloting and
    adopting models for sustainable, effective management.

Component 5: PA management (WB) GEF alternative US $27.72 [GEF funding US $ 4,12]

Funding would be allocated to consolidate and strengthen management systems in three
priority terrestrial PAs (meriting different management approaches), and establish two
priority freshwater, two estuarine, and two marine protected areas. The GEF would provide
funding for management planning, the development of visitor management plans, and
Strategic Performance Management Systems. Support will also be provided to secure private
land under conservation management. Private and public land to the value of $5 million is
conservatively expected to be secured in this manner. Income earning private sector
investment in tourism and environmental infrastructure in protected areas of $10 million is
anticipated.

Co-financing has been secured from the GoSA and NGO sector for protected area
operations, including for staffing, equipment and operations costs for boundary
demarcation, IAS and fire management, and key infrastructure (ranger posts, visitor
facilities, interpretation). [GEF: $ 3.885 m; Co-fin: $22.4 m]. These activities will generate
largely global benefits over the medium term; in the longer term, tourism development at
the target sites is expected to generate domestic co-benefits, justifying the national funding
contribution.

In marine protected areas, activities would include the design and piloting of pilot fishery
set-asides co-management arrangements for sustainable utilization of living coastal
resources and biodiversity conservation. The GoSA would finance the costs of capital
acquisition and of enforcement services for the pilots. The GEF would fund the incremental
costs of removing knowledge barriers to effecting sustainable utilization of inshore
fisheries through spatial management means, and thus to mainstream biodiversity
management in the artisanal fishery sector. In the long-term, these demonstrations are
expected to increase fishery productivity through an increase in spawning biomass in
refugia and spillover effects. The domestic co-benefits derived from the pilot will provide a
vehicle for ensuring the financial sustainability of management. [GEF: $0.235 m; Co-fin:
$1.2 m].




                                              47

Component 6: Identifying and securing biodiversity in priority areas (WB) GEF alternative
US $9,5[GEF funding US $1,2]

The GEF would allocate funds to undertake fine-scale planning, to map habitat patches and
potential corridors in five to six priority areas, identified as lowland priorities in the CAPE
2000 Strategy [GEF:$0.4 m]. The GoSA would fund the development of integrated
conservation and development plans in these areas. The GEF would fund capacity building
activities to enhance the ability of local area planners in municipalities at these sites to
accommodate biodiversity conservation needs in local planning and decision- making,
including for the execution of incentives measures (rates rebates). [GEF:$0.3 m; Co-fin:
$2.9 m]. The GEF would finance efforts to build the capacity of extension officers in these
areas to impart biodiversity management advice to landholders with a view to facilitating
formal conservation agreements. The operations of the extension services at these six sites
would be co-funded by GoSA [GEF:$1.3 m; Co-fin:$ 8.1 m].

Component 7: Integrating biodiversity into watershed management (WB) GEF alternative
US $ 7.04 [GEF funding US $1,32]

The GEF would allocate funds to develop, test and adapt protocols and tools for
incorporating biodiversity concerns into water catchment management. This includes
establishing ecological reserve requirements for important wetlands, and strengthening fire
management systems and protocols [GEF:$0.3 m, Co-Fin U$ $2.9 m]. GEF and non-GEF
funding (from the GoSA) would be appropriated towards the development of an overall
strategic plan, across all taxonomic groups, for IAS control. The GEF would provide funding
to test novel control technologies, and establish safeguards for species not currently subject to
effective control. The GoSA would replicate successful approaches [GEF:$0.48m;Co-fin
$2m]. For estuarine management, the GEF would pilot novel approaches to cooperative
governance (local communities and multi-institutional) and integrated management
[GEF:$0.54m] while the GoSA would handle the technical aspects underpinning the new
management system [$0.82m].

Incremental Costs and Benefits:

The systems boundary is defined spatially by the CFR's geographic boundary, spanning an
area of 90,000 km2 within the Western Cape and Eastern Cape provinces. The systems
boundary is defined temporally by the life of the project (six years). The GEF would provide
funding for activities that generate clear global benefits, and could not be justified solely on
account of domestic benefits. These benefits are diffuse, and distributed over long time-
horizons, and would not ordinarily have been pursued solely in the national interest. Co-
financing has been secured for activities producing substantial co-benefits (global + domestic
benefits). The baseline, comprising activities that would be pursued irrespective of project
investment, has been estimated at US $213.15 million8. The Alternative has been costed at
US $268.28 million. The GEF would fund incremental costs, amounting to US $11 million,
exclusive of preparatory assistance. Co-financing of US $ 44.13 million has been leveraged
for the Alternative (exclusive of preparatory assistance).




8The baseline cost estimate omits baseline costs attached to complementary GEF interventions in the CFR,
     aimed at supporting the national C.A.P.E. program, including the C.A.P.E.:Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative
     (ABI) and the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund.



                                                      48

        Table 1: Cost summaries
        All costs in m US    Baseline          GEF Alternative   Increment             Increment          Increment
        $                    scenario
        Component                                                GEF                    Others            Total

        Institutional        3.92              9.72              1.4                   4.4                5.8
        strengthening
        Conservation         1.96              3.07              0.6                   0.51               1.11
        education
        Establishing the     31.47             33.9              1.21                  1.12               2.31
        foundations for
        the biodiversity
        economy
        Program support      2.8               4.43              0.95                   0.68              1.63
        PA Management        80.2              107.92            4.12                  23.6               27.72
        Identifying    and   17.2              26.7              1.6                   8.1                9.5
        securing
        biodiversity    in
        priority areas
        Integrating          75.6              82.64             1.32                  5.72               7.04
        biodiversity   into
        watershed
        management
        Total                213.15            268.28            11                    44.13              55.13

        Incremental Cost Matrix

Component             Cost category   Cost (US $ mln)     Domestic benefit                      Global benefit

Component 1:          Baseline        Total= 3.92
Institutional
strengthening
                      GEF Alternative Total= 9.72
                      Increment       GEF: 1.4            Programmatic synergies assure cost-   Improved capacity for long term
                                      THETA: 3.5          effective delivery of national BD     sustainability of conservation
                                      SANParks: 0.82      conservation commitments through      interventions at the systemic level to
                                      Fynbos Forum:0.08   development programs                  manage global biodiversity
                                      Total: 5.8
Component 2:
Conservation          Baseline        Total =   1.96
education
                      GEF Alternative Total= 3.07
                      Increment       GEF: 0.6            Expanded access within rural/         Enhanced awareness of
                                      DEAT: 0.51          disadvantaged communities to          conservation values amongst
                                      Total: 1.11         education on `green' issues           decision-makers and civil society;
                                                          pertinent to their livelihoods        new collaborative management
                                                                                                mechanisms enlist a new
                                                                                                constituency for BD management
Component 3:                          Total = 31.47
Establishing the      Baseline
foundations of the
biodiversity
economy
                      GEF Alternative Total= 33.8
                      Increment       GEF: 1.21           New management arrangements           New incentive measures help
                                      Ford F: 0.12        provide for better stewardship of     mitigate threats to global
                                      Private: 1          natural capital stocks important to   ecosystems and uncover tangible
                                      Total: 2.33         welfare                               new conservation incentives
Component 4:
Program support       Baseline        Total= 2.8

                      GEF Alternative Total= 4.43
                      Increment       GEF: 0.95                                                 Monitoring Systems in place to
                                      NBI/DEAT: 0.68                        n/a                 measure pressure, state and
                                      Total: 1.63                                               response of global conservation
                                                                                                investments




                                                              49

Component         Cost category   Cost (US $ mln)   Domestic benefit                   Global benefit

Component 5:      Baseline        Total= 80.2
PA management

                  GEF Alternative Total= 107.92
                  Increment       GEF: 4.12         Improved cost recovery             System of PAs established to
                                  SANParks: 2.2     mechanisms for PAs, and cost       conserve global biodiversity
                                  WCNCB:4.44        effectiveness in service delivery
                                  DEAT:0.74
                                  MCM: 1.2
                                  Private: 15.02
                                  Total: 27.72
Component 6:
Identifying and   Baseline        Total = 17.2
securing
biodiversity in
priority areas
                  GEF Alternative Total= 26.7
                  Increment       GEF: 1.4          The ecological sustainability of   Integrated spatial plans provide a
                                  Local Gov't: 6.1  local area development is enhanced framework for mainstreaming
                                  Private: 2                                           global BD objectives into
                                  Total: 9.5                                           irreplaceable habitats
Component 7:
Integrating       Baseline        Total =   75.6
biodiversity into
watershed
management
                  GEF Alternative Total= 82.64
                  Increment       GEF: 1.32         Efficiencies in IAS controls       IAS management expanded to
                                  DWAF: 5.72        improves impacts per-unit-input    address species threatening native
                                  Total: 7.04                                          biota, and the minimum ecological
                                                                                       reserves of threatened wetlands are
                                                                                       maintained to secure global BD
Total             Baseline        US $213.15
                  GEF Alternative US $268.28

Incremental Cost                  GEF                         Non-GEF                      Total
Full Project                      11                          44.13                        55.13
Preparation                       0.32                        0.32                         0.64
Grand Total                       11.32                       44.45                        55.77




                                                       50

Annex 3:        STAP Technical Review


Date: February 16, 2003
Project ID: PO75997
Focal Area: B ­ Biodiversity
STAP Review Expert: Dr. Kenton Miller
                                            General

I find this to be an excellent project proposal. For the most part it is clear and concise, well
written, and ambitious. Below please find my comments following the 4 February 2002 TOR
for Technical Review of Project Proposals, and the Focal Area-specific annotations to the
GTOR of the STAP Roster Review.

Scientific and technical soundness of the project

The project has a solid scientific and technical basis in biological, social and economic
aspects. While much research remains to be done, there is sufficient information available to
support the planning and managerial process. Furthermore, the professionals that prepared the
proposal and the staff of NBI are top-notch people. The program adequately reflects the GEF
design criteria.

Global environmental benefits

Maintaining and restoring the Cape biota, including ecosystems, genetic and specie
components, is of itself a significant global environment benefit. In this way, the unique Cape
flora and fauna can be kept available for the global human populations, e.g., the development
of future medicines, tourism, and overall ecosystem functions and processes. This effort will
contribute to the development of the global "conservation economy." The project seeks to
mainstream biodiversity conservation objectives into "all the productive sectors, the regional
economy and key government programs over a 3-phase 20-year period.

On p. 37, the first full para. says "The program is designed to have a substantial positive
global environmental benefit which secures the CFR for future generations."

Fit within the goals of GEF

The proposal fits very well within the goals and operational strategies of GEF (including
OP1, 2, 4, and 12).

Regional context

By applying the bioregional approach, the project will identify opportunities for advancing
RSA's advanced transboundary conservation program. Already such multi-country parks,
such as with Botswana, and Mozambique, and others. Research and planning are well
advanced to link key core reserve sites through corridors that will cross international
boundaries as needed. Thus, South Africa will provide stimulus to its neighbors to develop a
southern Africa protected area system, which will in turn become a core resource base for
development through wildlife tourism and sustainable use.




                                               51

Replicability

Aside from the obvious distinctions with its neighbors in terms of social and economic
development, and infrastructure, the surrounding countries have in common a major capital
stock of wildlife and wildlands. As research by John Hanks and others has shown, this model
of core park areas, buffer zones, and corridor linkages can be repeated in each of the other
countries. All have need for institutional and personnel development, creating jobs, etc. In
this sense, South African experience and learning will be of considerable value to its
neighbors.

Sustainability of the project

The potential for sustainability of the project (the legacy) for extending its value well into the
future is high. This is for several reasons. First, the duration of the project (20 years) in of
itself provides a certain guarantee that the goals, activities, and lessons learned during the life
of the Project will continue beyond the implementation period. This period is sufficiently
long as to permit the necessary reforms of policy, institution building, and capacity
development.

The Project engages all related public agencies, private sector and citizen bodies. The
environmental education module will create a future generation that is well disposed to
conserve their wildlife treasure. Lastly, from personal experience, the public and private
managers and entrepreneurs in the RSA are very anxious to become ever more involved in
wildlife management.

Secondary issues:

Linkages to other focal areas

This topic is not covered explicitly in the proposal. However, several points can be made
based upon the text:

Environmental education: p. 33. "There is potential benefit in linking training and course
development to an institution of higher learning that acts as a focal point in a partnership with
NGOs..." There are also references to the Climate Change Education project, and the Water
Education Program.

P. 35 under value added of Bank support refers to linkages with planning, management
systems, capacity building, tourism promotion, environmental education, knowledge
management and alien species control activities. While again the document does now
explicitly address these items as "linkages of other focal areas," this reference makes the case
that by relating to other projects lead by the World Bank, this project is associated with these
noted focal areas. Other references refer to UNDP activities in the region that focus on
integrated ecosystem management, capacity building and environmental education.

Linkages to other programmes and action plans at regional or sub-regional levels.

There is little reference in the document to regional or sub-regional programmes. This is
perhaps due to the project's geographic focus on biological resources whose range lies within
one country (RSA).


                                                52

On p. 9, Strategic Context, reference is made to a country assistance strategy goal that is
supported by the project.      There are three development objectives.        The third reads:
"Strengthening South Africa's constructive role in regional development through investment
projects, improved policy integration, and co-ordinated regional relations." Reference is also
made to UNDP's Country Co-operation Framework that "...makes provision for protecting
the global environment through conservation and protection of local and regional
environments of global significance..."

On p. 11, reference is made to use of "bioregional planning," and the development of trans-
frontier protected areas along South Africa's boundaries. Also, on pp. 15, 17, and elsewhere,
reference is made to linkages with watershed management and invasive species control.
Surely, to work on these and other similar large-scale issues will demand working with
neighboring countries that have shared or transboundary ecosystems. I find no explicit
reference to this issue.

The table on p. 28 lists "Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies."      This would suggest a serious effort to explore the linkages with
activities focus on other sectors.

Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects

On p. 17+ reference is made to environmental benefits, e.g., "The overriding benefit of the
Program is that priority terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation areas in the globally
significant CCCVR and adjacent marine environments will be secured through a suite of
interventions..." A list of positive benefits follows. I find no reference to damaging
environmental effects.

Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the project

Project methodology appears to be centrally dedicated to the involvement and engagement of
local rural communities, business and industry, and political jurisdictions. On p. 16, "The
design of activities under the CAPE umbrella has to date focused on civil society
involvement...to seed and catalyze the involvement of local communities in conservation
action. "...every component of the Program is designed to be participatory, with emphasis on
involving previously disadvantaged sectors of the population..." Also, see pp23-24 regarding
the lessons learned from other projects regarding successful stakeholder participation.

My main concern here is that throughout the document reference is made to "consultation"
with the stakeholders. The literature is filled with reports on the fallacy of considering
"consultation" to be equal to "engagement" or "involvement" of stakeholders. To consult may
only cover showing the proposals at an open public meeting; it may NOT mean discussion,
conflict resolution, forging agreements, and reaching consensus. What is actually meant by
"consultation?"     Be that as it may, the project method laudably includes various
"consultations with stakeholders" throughout the process. However, the proposal does make a
strong case for stakeholder participation on p. 24.




                                               53

Capacity building aspects

The presentation appears to assume that capacity building will take place throughout project
implementation for all those individual and groups involved.
Very limited capacity building is noted on p. 24. There, a recommendation is made "...to
make sure that participants are well aware of plans." The lack of development of a full
section on staff capacity building is perhaps one of the weakest components of the Project.
However, considerable investment is made in institution building. Working from what are
already very strong solid institutions, such as the National Botanical Institute, this project
promises to expand the capacity to manage biodiversity conservation projects.

Innovativeness of the Project

The project takes good advantage of existing institutions (NBI) that already have a proven
track record at project planning and implementation. While the individual methods and
models utilized are not necessarily pioneering, the overall approach, including the project
duration, phasing and M&E, and geographic scale, are innovative as a package of
components. The inclusion of lessons learned from earlier projects is extremely helpful to
building a knowledge base, and for sharing what is learned among peers.

Reviewer's comments

1.      The proposal lacks clear and explicit presentation of information on a series of points.
Specifically, statements of goals and objectives are not always backed by explanations of
process. For example: on p. 9, under the Strategic Context, and the CAS, the contributions of
the project to the three CAS development objectives are not explained. Where is it clarified
how the project will increase jobs, reduce poverty and inequality. There are other cases of
this same disjuncture between statements of goals or outputs and outcomes, and how the
project methodology will achieve these objectives.

These points can be corrected by writing more systematically to associate goals with means.

2.      Including "Lessons Learned" is a major a innovation. This is a cutting edge effort.
IUCN's World Commission on Protected Areas is now establishing a Protected Areas
Learning Network (PALNet) for purposes of capturing lessons learned and sharing them for
testing and application elsewhere through an interactive web site at IUCN. This approach can
be expected to accelerate the development and dispersal of knowledge and practice.

3.      Under international partnerships, why is there no reference to partners along the
national boundary that will assist in the development of transboundary protected areas and
watershed management? This could be added quickly to the presentation. This would
strengthen that section of the proposal, but also the section on regional impact and
cooperation.

4.      Don't forget to add the explanation of "Safeguards" on p. 4.

5.      On p. 9, the Key performance indicators section is very important and in some
respects an innovation. You could add some specific guidance and explanation to numeral 8:
Cite the IUCN Protected Area Classification system; international standards will be one of
the subjects to be debated at the 5th World Parks Congress.



                                               54

6.      Strengthen Item B: Strategic Context point #1: add two or three sentences to explain
each of the three main development objectives, particularly #3. South Africa's regional
influence on conservation is very important for future development for people and nature.

7.      You might want to consider adding an annex to present the Millennium Development
Goal and the Johannesburg Summit outcomes as related to this topic. Some readers will not
as yet have had the opportunity to review these documents.

8.      On p. 11, the text notes summary numerals by percent of terrestrial coverage. This is
normal shorthand for park people. But it misses a crucial dimension: How are these areas
classified in terms of their objectives of management? That is, add a matrix graphic showing
the numbers, areas, and percents of coverage. UNEP/WCMC has the numbers.

9.      On p. 12, end of para on Government Strategy: How is the project going "to
        mainstream biodiversity and conservation into productive sectors of the economy, and
        development of capacity in this regard." Two sentences here would be helpful.

10.     Listing the Project Components on p. 13+ is very helpful.

11.     I trust that there will be more "Latest Supervision Ratings" in the table on p. 22,
        otherwise one could question its utility. And please give the graphs numbers as
        figures, tables, etc.

12.     p. 24: under item 4, reference is made to economic dimensions of biodiversity
        planning and management in both marine and terrestrial environments. One would
        want to include the "non-material" values and benefits of biodiversity and biological
        resources as well. (see A. D. Putney, IUCN/WCPA c/o IUCN headquarters). These
        cultural, aesthetic, recreational and other similar values are often the most powerful in
        terms of income generation, economic development, and peoples' quality of life.

13.     p. 25. Would be good to clarify "Whose money" is being used to purchase land.

14.     p. 31.    We are rather close to having a good system to evaluate management
        effectiveness. (see Dr. Marc Hockings, U. Queensland; see WCPA web site for
        publications)

15.     p. 34. See earlier reference to PALNet.

16.     p. 37-38, 41. Again question of the term "consult(ed).

17.     p. 41. What are the units on item 5.2? Do you mean square kms?

End-------------------

Dr. Kenton Miller
Lost Hollow Farm
RR 1, Box 131
Mathias, WV 26812
Phone/fax: 304-897-6576
Email: kenton@hardynet.com please cc to kenton@wri.org



                                                55

Response to STAP comments by the Project Team

Replicability
The reviewer commented that, aside from the obvious       Agreed, the C.A.P.E. Program will through dissemination
distinctions with its neighbors in terms of social and    mechanisms ensure that the lessons learned contribute to
economic development, and infrastructure, the             bioregional programs in South Africa, in neighbouring countries
surrounding countries have in common a major capital      and elsewhere.
stock of wildlife and wildlands, and that this model of
core park areas, buffer zones, and corridor linkages
could be repeated in each of the other countries. All
have need for institutional and personnel development,
creating jobs, etc. In this sense, South African
experience and learning would be of considerable value
to its neighbors.
Linkages to other programmes and action plans at
regional or sub-regional levels, and between Project
components
The reviewer indicated a need for more explicit           The Project has been designed with close linkages between all
reference to linkages between components and with         components and activities. Implementing agencies will ensure
other interventions in the region.                        close coordination between the respective project activities and
                                                          other related interventions in the region. Linkages between
                                                          components have been made more explicit in the document.
The reviewer commented that there is little reference in  The project domain is unaffected by shared and transboundary
the document to regional or sub-regional programmes,      ecosystems.
and asks whether work on this programme would
demand working with neighboring countries that have
shared or transboundary ecosystems.

Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the project
The reviewer notes the Project's commitment to            Preparation of both the C.A.P.E. Program and this Project were
meaningful involvement of and engagement with             characterized by extensive participation and involvement of
stakeholders, but feels that where the term               stakeholders. The title Cape Action for People and the
"consultation" is used, it should be defined to ensure    Environment alludes to this, and the design reflects committed
that this is not token consultation.                      participation at all levels.

Capacity building aspects
The reviewer feels that "The lack of development of a     Component 1: Institutional Strengthening incorporates a
full section on staff capacity building is perhaps one of complete needs analysis and focused capacity-building
the weakest components of the Project. However,           component. There are capacity-building elements in each
considerable investment is made in institution            component and sub-component, but the key is co-ordination and
building."                                                focus. In addition, it should be noted that the 4th strategic
                                                          direction of CEPF funding to the CFR is dedicated to capacity
                                                          building especially in civil society, and that the CEPF funding
                                                          is complementary to the Project.
Other Comments
The reviewer feels that statements of goals and           This point has been addressed in the document (see section on
objectives are not always backed by explanations of       CAS and Annex 1:Project Logframe)
process, and that these points can be corrected by
writing more systematically to associate goals with
means.

The reviewer requested that an explanation of             This has been done (see Safeguards section)
"Safeguards" be inserted.
The reviewer requested that an explanation of the         This has been done. See description of Component 5.
IUCN protected area classification be inserted into the
document.
The reviewer requested a short explanation of each of     The Development Objectives are explained in the Component
the development objectives.                               Descriptions.
The reviewer suggests adding an annex to present the      Not necessary for this audience.
Millennium Development Goal and the Johannesburg
Summit outcomes as related to this topic.
The reviewer requests adding a matrix graphic showing     Further information has been provided in Annex 10.
the numbers, areas, and percents of coverage of
protected areas
The reviewer asks for clarification on how the project    See C2: Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought. The
will " mainstream biodiversity and conservation into      concept of mainstreaming is explained in a footnote in the



                                                            56

productive sectors of the economy, and development of    Program Description C1. Project Components 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and
capacity in this regard."                                7 are all concerned with ensuring that biodiversity underpins
                                                         socio-economic development, and that biodiversity benefits
                                                         from this "win-win" relationship.
The reviewer requests that the "non-material" values     The Monitoring and Evaluation system referred to in
and benefits of biodiversity and biological resources be Component 4 embraces measurement of Project impact across
included in any evaluation.                              Biodiversity, Economic and Social dimensions. The economic
                                                         evaluation of biodiversity in the CFR to be undertake as an
                                                         activity under Component 3 will consider non-material values
                                                         of biodiversity.
The reviewer suggests that it would be good to clarify   This has been clarified in the document. In most cases, land
"Whose money" is being used to purchase land.            purchase is not the preferred option, but the involvement of
                                                         existing landowners in contractual arrangements for protection.
                                                         Where purchases are undertaken, these do not employ GEF
                                                         resources but are the result of private sector investment, or the
                                                         use of dedicated funds.
The reviewer suggests making reference to newly          This has been emphasized in the document under the
developed mechanisms to evaluate management              description of Component 5.
effectiveness.




                                                           57

Annex 4:       Institutions associated with the project

The following institutions are directly involved in aspects of C.A.P.E. implementation. In
addition, there is a huge range of organisations that could become more directly involved in
the Project.

Program co-ordination institutions

·      C.A.P.E. Co-ordinating Committee (CCC). The Parties to the C.A.P.E. Memorandum
       of Understanding form the CCC. They are the National Minister of Environmental
       Affairs and Tourism, the National Minister of Water Affairs and Forestry, the
       Member of the Executive Council of the Eastern Cape for Environmental Affairs, and
       the Member of the Executive Council of the Western Cape for Environmental Affairs.
       The CCC's function is to provide direction and oversight to ensure that the CAPE
       2000 Strategy is implemented and achieves its purpose.

·      C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (CIC). The CIC is established in terms of a
       subsidiary MoU to the C.A.P.E. MoU. The Parties to the CIC MoU are all agencies
       that play a significant and on-going role in implementing aspects of the CAPE 2000
       Strategy. It consists of 16 agencies, including government departments at national,
       provincial and local level, NGOs and international conservation bodies.

·      National Botanical Institute (NBI). The NBI is a statutory body established in terms of
       the Forest Act. In terms of the Biodiversity Bill published on 24 January 2003, it will
       become the National Biodiversity Institute with a responsibility for, inter alia,
       bioregional conservation programs. In terms of the C.A.P.E. MoU the NBI is
       designated as the Program Management Agency for C.A.P.E. It is responsible for
       establishing and housing the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit.

·      C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Unit (CCU). The Cape Co-ordination Unit is responsible for
       the day to day management of the Project. It consists of a Co-ordinator,
       Administrator, Communications Manager, Project Developer and Finance/Business
       Manager. The Co-ordinator reports to the Director: Biodiversity Policy and Planning
       of the NBI.

National institutions

·      Department of Environment Affairs and Tourism (DEAT). DEAT is the lead agency
       for the implementation of C.A.P.E. as a priority program of the GoSA. DEAT is
       responsible for national and international programs concerning biodiversity,
       sustainable development and the key conventions concerning the natural environment.
       In addition DEAT is responsible for tourism and for programs to enhance tourism and
       job creation through sustainable development.

·      Chief Directorate of Marine and Coastal Management of the Department of
       Environmental Affairs and Tourism (MCM). MCM is responsible for the
       implementation of Coastal and Marine programs in the Western Cape and Eastern
       Cape provinces.




                                              58

·  Department of Water Affairs and Forestry (DWAF). DWAF is concerned with
   C.A.P.E. both in terms of its forestry and water components. DWAF is the custodian
   of State Forests which form the core of many protected areas throughout the CFR, and
   is the key agency for implementing the provisions of the Water Act, under which the
   responsibilities for watershed management are being devolved to Catchment
   Management Agencies.

·  Working for Water Program, which is responsible for the removal of alien plants from
   catchments, is an initiative of DWAF. It is regarded as an example of the kind of
   collaborative program required to fulfil the objectives of C.A.P.E. in that it seeks to
   address a threat to biodiversity while simultaneously improving water run-off and
   meeting social and development objectives, through job creation and the development
   of entrepreneurs.

·  Department of Land Affairs (DLA). DLA is concerned with the access to and
   development of land. This includes land redistribution, restitution and tenure reform.
   These issues arise in the establishment of contractual parks, buffer areas and
   resettlement programs.

·  Department of Agriculture (DA). The DA is responsible for agricultural resource
   conservation, and decision-making concerning the use of land. Conversion of land
   from agricultural uses to other uses as well as the conversion of unused land requires
   the approval of the DA.

·  Department of Provincial and Local Government (DPLG). This department provides
   resources and support to local authorities in compiling Integrated Development Plans
   (IDPs) and will oversee the local authority's land-use regulation and planning,
   housing and township establishment, development planning and local economic
   development.

·  South African National Parks (SANParks). SANParks has the primary responsibility
   for all protected areas that are designated as National Parks within the CFR.

·  Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The CSIR is the premier
   technology and research organization in Africa committed to innovation, supporting
   sustainable development and economic growth and creating value for clients, partners
   and stakeholders. Its Foundation for Research Development has supported the Fynbos
   Forum, an association of conservation managers, researchers, private sector and
   individuals interested in the CFR.

·  The Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA). The DBSA is playing a role
   together with other C.A.P.E. implementing agencies to develop conditions for
   investment and growth in the region. The DBSA will support C.A.P.E. in its mission
   to increase investment in the CFR in appropriate infrastructure and development.

·  Tourism and Hospitality Education and Training Authority (THETA). The THETA is
   responsible for the administration of skills development in the nature conservation
   and tourism sectors. It is currently involved in C.A.P.E. through the Integrated
   Nature­based Tourism and Conservation Management Project, but will continue to
   play a direct and indirect role in capacity-building in this sector.



                                           59

Provincial institutions

·     Eastern Cape Department of Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism (EC
      DEAET). The Chief Directorate of Environmental Affairs is the lead agency for the
      implementation of C.A.P.E. in the province. It houses the Eastern Cape C.A.P.E. Co-
      ordination office.

·     The Eastern Cape Tourism Board (ECTB). The ECTB is responsible for tourism
      development and marketing in the Eastern Cape, and is therefore a key instrument in
      developing economic opportunities based on natural resources.

·     The Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC). The ECDC is responsible for
      development programs in the Eastern Cape. It is currently involved in the
      development of the Baviaanskloof Mega-reserve in partnership with the EC DEAET
      and the Wilderness Foundation.

·     Eastern Cape Department of Agriculture and Land Affairs (EC DLA). The department
      is responsible for agricultural development in the Eastern Cape.

·     Eastern Cape Department of Housing and Local Government (EC DHLG). The
      department is responsible for land-use planning in the Eastern Cape, and is therefore a
      key agency in the development of decision-support to local government in the
      province.

·     Western Cape Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning (WC
      DEA&DP). This Department is responsible for the dual functions of land-use
      planning and environmental affairs. It is a key institution in the development of the
      strategic development frameworks and integrated development plans for the province
      and is the authorizing agency for development.

·     Western Cape Department of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Tourism. Several
      branches of this Department are closely involved with C.A.P.E., including the
      economic development of the province, agricultural development, agricultural
      extension services and skills development.

·     Western Cape Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB). The WCNCB is responsible for
      nature conservation throughout the Western Cape, both within and beyond protected
      areas.

·     Western Cape Tourism Board (WCTB). The WCTB is responsible for tourism
      marketing and promotion in the province. It is a key contributor in terms of its role in
      influencing private sector investment in nature-based tourism and in championing
      responsible tourism development in the province.

Municipal institutions

·     City of Cape Town (CoCT). CoCT is responsible for municipal service provision and
      administration within the greater Cape Town area. It has adopted an Integrated
      Management and Environmental Plan and a Biodiversity Policy and Strategy which




                                             60

     accords with CAPE 2000 Strategy. It is responsible for core flora sites within the
     municipal boundaries.

·    Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality (NMMM). The NMMM is responsible for
     municipal service provision and administration in the greater Port Elizabeth area in
     the Eastern Cape. Within the municipal boundaries are several municipal protected
     areas.

·    District Councils. The CFR is administered by several District Councils. These
     municipalities are integral to the successful implementation of C.A.P.E. as they are
     responsible for the development and implementation of Integrated Development Plans
     (IDPs).

Non-governmental organizations

·    Botanical Society of South Africa. The Botanical Society, with 25,000 members, has
     promoted the conservation of indigenous flora in South Africa since 1913. The
     Botanical Society's Cape Conservation Unit plays an important role in conservation,
     and its activities include advocacy, planning, research, and implementation. Taking
     the lead from the C.A.P.E. recommendations, this group is prioritizing lowland areas
     for conservation and enhancing opportunities for private conservation.

·    Wilderness Foundation (WF). The Wilderness Foundation is the only national NGO
     based in the Eastern Cape portion of the CFR, where it is undertaking Program
     management functions in partnership with the EC DEAET to implement the
     Baviaanskloof mega-reserve project.

·    Wildlife and Environment Society of Southern Africa (WESSA). WESSA, founded in
     1927, has demonstrated ability to organize grassroots conservation efforts such as
     lobbying, monitoring water quality, and providing environmental education. The
     organization's experience in these areas, as well as its membership base in the CFR,
     make it an important stakeholder in the implementation of C.A.P.E., WESSA's
     branches in both the Western Cape and Eastern Cape are actively involved in
     elements of C.A.P.E..

·    Table Mountain Fund (TMF). Founded by WWF-SA, the TMF was established as a
     capital trust fund to catalyse the development of projects throughout the CFR. It is
     also the manager of a capacity-building program utilising funding from the Critical
     Ecosystem Partnership Fund.

·    Mountain Club of South Africa (MCSA). The MCSA has become involved in aspects
     of C.A.P.E. concerning the preservation of wilderness qualities especially in
     mountainous areas of the CFR.

·    Flower Valley Conservation Trust (FVCT). The FVCT is implementing a program in
     the Agulhas Plain to promote the sustainable harvesting of wild flowers together with
     job-creation, diversification of employment and the provision of early learning
     opportunities.




                                           61

·     Fynbos Forum (FF). The Fynbos Forum was established by academics, managers,
      NGOs and private sector organisations as a network to exchange ideas and develop
      new approaches to conservation and development in the CFR. It has adopted C.A.P.E.
      as its primary focus.

·     Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve Company. The Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve Company
      was established to manage the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve, a UNESCO listed
      Biosphere Reserve.

·     West Coast Biosphere Reserve Company. The West Coast Biosphere Reserve
      Company was established to manage the West Coast Biosphere Reserve, a UNESCO
      listed Biosphere Reserve.

·     South African Association of Protea Producers and Exporters (SAPPEX). SAPPEX is
      a voluntary organisation, and the recognized mouthpiece of the Fynbos Industry.
      SAPPEX encourages its members to accept stewardship of the Cape Floristic
      Region's biological wealth to ensure long-term economic growth based on sustainable
      use.

·     International Association for Impact Assessment (IAIA). The IAIA will be involved
      in the development of environmental best practices for application in the CFR.

·     National Business Initiative (NBI). The National Business Initiative operates as a
      partnership between business and GoSA in the area of socio-economic delivery, in
      order to make an impact on national problems.

International institutions

·     Conservation International (CI). CI will not initiate an expansive program, but will
      provide technical assistance and liaison work on special initiatives that could benefit
      from the global expertise in CI's Centre for Applied Biodiversity Science and the
      Centre for Environmental Leadership in Business. The Critical Ecosystems
      Partnership Fund ( CEPF ) is providing US $8 million to the civil society component
      of the CAPE Strategy.

·     World Wide Fund for Nature ­ South Africa (WWF-SA). One of the world's largest
      and most effective independent organizations dedicated to the conservation of nature
      WWF-SA represents the WWF in South Africa. WWF-SA's conservation strategy
      prioritises sustainable use of renewable natural resources; species and habitats of
      special concern; protected areas; legislation, policies and treaties and pollution and
      consumption of non-renewable natural resources.

·     Fauna and Flora International (FFI). FFI is one of the C.A.P.E. implementing
      agencies and has provided technical assistance in the development of the Program.
      FFI is also directly involved in the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative and in
      the activities of the Flower Valley Conservation Trust.

·     Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF). The CEPF has allocated resources to
      the CFR in terms of an Ecosystem Profile, which lists four strategic funding directions
      to involve civil society in conservation action supportive of C.A.P.E.



                                             62

Academic institutions

·    Goldfields Environmental Education Service Centre, Rhodes University. The
     Goldfields Centre conducts research and skills development in the field of
     Environmental Education and will be approached to undertake specific
     responsibilities in C.A.P.E.

·    Graduate School of Business, University of Cape Town (GSB). The GSB has recently
     initiated a Business and Environment program in association with Cambridge
     University, and may undertake specific responsibilities in C.A.P.E.

·    Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, University of Cape Town
     (PFIAO). The PFIAO conducts research and skills development in Conservation
     Biology and in Ornithology with many activities directly implementing aspects of
     C.A.P.E.

·    University of Stellenbosch (US). The University of Stellenbosch undertakes research
     and skills development in nature conservation and agriculture and has made
     significant progress in investigating the conservation and management concerns
     regarding the Renosterveld, one of the most threatened lowland habitat units in the
     CFR.

·    Program for Land and Agrarian Studies, University of the Western Cape (PLAAS).
     PLAAS undertakes policy and research studies dealing with community-based natural
     resource management. It is likely to play a significant role in aspects of C.A.P.E.

·    Terrestrial Ecology Research Unit, University of Port Elizabeth (TERU). TERU has
     developed expertise in conservation planning and implementation methodologies and
     is a key research and development institution in the CFR.

·    Institute for Plant Conservation, University of Cape Town (IPC). The IPC has
     undertaken conservation planning research and development for C.A.P.E. and in
     particular, has been developing techniques to ensure the representation of biodiversity
     processes in conservation plans.




                                           63

Annex 5:            Environmental Threat Analysis

        C.A.P.E. Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development in the CFR

Major                     Root causes                 Solutions including GEF                 Risks
environmental                                         intervention (numbers =
threats                                               LFA subcomponent
                                                      addressing the issue)
I. Habitat transformation due to land conversion (urban development and agriculture)
(i) High priority         1. The total economic       This is a complex problem for which     Studies are inconclusive
conservation areas in CFR value of vulnerable         there is no short-term solution. The    or unconvincing to key
encompassing transition   ecological systems          Project will lay the foundations for    stakeholders.
zones between montane     (underpinning               addressing this problem by:
and lowlands are severely livelihoods) is not         undertaking an economic valuation
transformed and           accommodated in the         of the ecological services value of
fragmented, resulting in  cost/benefit calculus of    the CFR (3.1); encouraging
loss of connectivity and  land-use.                   environmental best practices (3.2);
gradients between large                               encouraging community eco-
habitat blocks.                                       enterprise development around
                                                      conservation objectives (3.3);
                                                      designing and piloting payments for
                                                      specific ecological services and
                                                      investigating tax incentives (3.4);
                                                      and investigating tradable
                                                      development rights in threatened
                                                      coastal lowland areas (3.5).

                          2. Biodiversity             2. Feasibility studies will be          Biodiversity conservation
                          conservation experiencing   undertaken in a representative          becomes a "cash cow" to
                          decline in support to       sample of priority protected areas to   cross-subsidise other
                          operating budgets.          develop PA business plans and           socio-economic priorities
                                                      mechanisms for financial                without maintaining the
                                                      sustainability to support ongoing       investment in the source
                                                      protected development and               of income.
                                                      management (1.3, 5.2); Economic
                                                      evaluation of ecological services will  Executing agencies lose
                                                      provide a sound rationale for further   their financial autonomy.
                                                      investment in biodiversity
                                                      conservation (3.1).

                          3. There is generally poor  3. The Project will raise awareness     Unwillingness on the part
                          public awareness of the     and understanding of biodiversity       of the large number of
                          importance of the CFR,      issues and benefits in the CFR. It      conservation education
                          its critically threatened   will establish a conservation           service providers to co-
                          status and the              education focal point to serve the      ordinate activities.
                          opportunities that will be  C.A.P.E. Program and provide
                          lost should biodiversity    technical resources to support site-
                          losses continue unabated.   based conservation education
                          One of the reasons is that, processes across the entire Project. It
                          despite a high level of     will also build on the favorable
                          understanding of            national education policy
                          conservation education      environment to ensure that CFR
                          processes, there is poor    biodiversity features in school
                          co-ordination of effort.    curricula throughout the CFR (2.1).

                          4. Inadequate resolution    4. The Project will support             Political conflicts between
                          of institutional mandates   enhancing inter-agency co-operation     different levels of
                          and poor inter-agency co-   and strategic planning for              government ­ national,
                          ordination in biodiversity  conservation management in the          provincial and local ­ may
                          conservation in CFR.        CFR (1.1.) by facilitating the          compromise inter-agency
                                                      resolution of legal mandates,           co-operation and co-
                                                      assessing the role of the National      ordination.
                                                      Biodiversity Institute; and
                                                      developing a generic performance



                                                        64

Major          Root causes                 Solutions including GEF                  Risks
environmental                              intervention (numbers =
threats                                    LFA subcomponent
                                           addressing the issue)
                                           management system to ensure
                                           alignment with C.A.P.E. It will also
                                           address the alignment of the
                                           Catchment Management Agencies
                                           with biodiversity conservation
                                           objectives.

                5. Skills development      5. The Project will support a co-         Skills developed in agency
                programs are ad-hoc and    ordinated approach across                 staff are not retained
                not part of a              institutions for training, skills         within the institutions as
                comprehensive              development and cross-institutional       staff losses occur with the
                institutional capacity     skill sharing (1.2).                      consequent skills drain.
                building strategy.


                6. Information on          6. The Project will address the lack      Agencies do not perceive
                biodiversity is scattered  of a coherent information                 value of a coherent cross-
                across various agencies    management system by establishing         institutional information
                and is of inappropriate    a C.A.P.E. Information Management         management system and
                quality and resolution.    Unit, which will provide reliable         resort to legacy
                                           information to land-use planners,         information systems.
                                           conservation agencies and
                                           municipalities and will assist in the
                                           development of skills and knowledge
                                           transfer. (1.4). It will also ensure that
                                           information management for
                                           protected areas management is
                                           appropriately implemented across the
                                           protected area system (5.2).

                7. The current protected   7. The Project will consolidate three     Political, public and
                area system is inadequate  priority protected areas, to ensure       financial support cannot
                to achieve global          that the broad-scale planning is          be gained to establish,
                conservation targets for   operationalized to meet regional          consolidate and manage
                biodiversity in the CFR;   pattern and process targets, and          large and complex
                existing large protected   particularly in developing the            protected areas.
                areas include land under a linkages through critical lowland
                variety of protection      habitats (5.1). In addition it will pilot
                designations and managed   the enhancement of formal protected
                by several authorities.    area status for the top two priority
                Critically threatened      freshwater and estuarine systems in
                lowland habitats are       the CFR, reflecting a wide range of
                poorly represented.        environmental, socio-economic and
                                           management conditions (5.1). The
                                           Project will also implement
                                           management planning for priority
                                           marine protected areas in the CFR
                                           reflecting a variety of conditions in
                                           both the Indian and Atlantic Ocean
                                           contexts (5.1).


                8. Adequate mechanisms     8. The Project will support the           Implementing agencies do
                and indicators to assess   development of a Performance              not support and maintain
                the effectiveness of       Management System in the context          the performance
                protected area             of the four major management              management systems.
                management are lacking.    agencies responsible for protected
                                           areas in the CFR (5.2); In addition,
                                           the overall Monitoring and
                                           Evaluation System will ensure that
                                           key outcomes and impacts are




                                             65

Major                       Root causes                  Solutions including GEF                Risks
environmental                                            intervention (numbers =
threats                                                  LFA subcomponent
                                                         addressing the issue)
                                                         assessed and evaluated across the
                                                         Project (4.1).




(ii) Threatened lowland     1. There are no effective    1, 2 and 3. The Project will            Tax incentives measures
fynbos and renosterveld     incentives for landowners    investigate the application of specific are not acceptable to
highly fragmented.          to conserve priority areas   tax incentive measures to support       policy-makers.
                            ­ including inadequate       landowners to conserve irreplaceable
                            policy and legal             biodiversity in threatened lowland
                            environment for such         areas (3.4). It will also ensure that
                            incentives.                  municipal Integrated Development
                                                         Plans reflect biodiversity priorities,
                            2. Local rates provide a     thereby constraining inappropriate
                            disincentive to              uses (6.2), and it will build co-
                            landowners to retain land    ordinated extension services to
                            as private conservation      support landowners directly (6.3).
                            areas.

                            3. High priority
                            conservation areas in
                            lowlands are not
                            incorporated into the
                            current land-use planning
                            system and therefore legal
                            constraints are not
                            available.

                            4. Inadequate information    4. The Project will support fine-scale  The fine-scale information
                            on status and distribution   conservation planning (6.1),            is not effected and
                            of biodiversity in           integrating the outputs into            becomes quickly outdated.
                            lowlands (including lack     government spatial planning and
                            of relevant expertise to     building capacity at the municipality
                            collect these data and of    level (6.2); it will also support the
                            standardized system for      establishment of C.A.P.E.
                            information gathering,       Information Management Unit (1.4)
                            management and               which will provide reliable, quality
                            communication).              information in user-friendly formats
                                                         to decision-makers and support staff
                                                         involved in land-use planning and
                                                         the conservation of biodiversity in
                                                         the currently unprotected matrix.

                            5. Landowners unaware        5. Conservation education processes
                            of alternative               are aimed at enabling a broad
                            conservation land-use        awareness and action competence
                            options.                     among stakeholders at all levels
                                                         regarding biodiversity values and
                                                         opportunities (2.1); and the
                                                         identification of entrepreneurial
                                                         opportunities increase the options
                                                         available to landowners (3.3).




II. Habitat degradation inside and outside protected areas
(i) Spread of invasive      1. Alien clearing priorities 1,2,3. Effective control strategies and Political and hence
alien plant species results are not linked to            measures developed by the Centres       government support for
in altered hydrology,       biodiversity conservation    of Excellence in IAS management         Working for Water
altered soil properties,    priorities.                  (7.2) will be implemented as part of    program declines



                                                           66

Major                       Root causes                 Solutions including GEF                Risks
environmental                                           intervention (numbers =
threats                                                 LFA subcomponent
                                                        addressing the issue)
accelerated soil erosion                                the overall CFR IAS strategy (7.2);    (possibly mitigated by
and increased fire          2. Long-term bioregional    improved efficiency of control         having a major Education,
frequency and intensity.    strategic and business      techniques for established alien       Awareness and Training
                            planning for invasive       programs brought about by the IPM      program aimed at building
                            alien clearing is lacking.  and Biocontrol activities of the       popular support for this
                                                        Centres of Excellence (7.2); alien     Project (2.1).
                            3. Biocontrol agents still  clearing activities will also be
                            have limited impacts.       conducted as integral part of high
                                                        impact management programs (5.2).
(ii) Inappropriate fire     1. Overlapping              1,2. The Project will support the      New FPAs do not receive
regimes result in           responsibilities for fire   incorporation of biodiversity          adequate financing to
alteration of soil          management.                 concerns into the new fire             enable them to control fire
properties and erosion                                  management system (7.1).               regime effectively;
effects.                    2. Fire management                                                 Fire legislation not
                            strategies focus on                                                amended so as to reduce
                            prevention and don't                                               liability of authorities
                            integrate biodiversity                                             attempting to carry out
                            management issues.                                                 planned fires which then
                                                                                               escape and do damage to
                            3. Lack of resources to                                            adjacent landowners'
                            manage fires                                                       property.
(iii) Physical              1. Biodiversity aspects not 1. The Project supports improved       Political support for
developments: urban         integrated into the coastal land-use planning approaches (6.1 &    ecologically sound land-
developments in highly      zone development plans.     6.2) which will contribute to          use planning decision-
vulnerable habitats/4x4                                 mainstreaming biodiversity in land-    making and for the
tracks/ mining activity in                              use decision-making aided by fine      researching, management
the coastal zone/bridges                                scale biodiversity information being   and monitoring of
in estuarine areas impair                               made available for priority areas (6.1 estuaries in the CFR is not
water flows and natural                                 & 6.2).                                forthcoming.
sediment movement
patterns; increased                                                                            Monitoring and
disturbance in                                                                                 enforcement of
biologically sensitive                                                                         development planning is
areas (sound and air                                                                           not adequate to prevent
pollution).                                                                                    illegal inappropriate
                            2. Recreational activities  2. Carrying capacities properly        developments
                            in the estuarine            quantified, accepted, and enforced by  Local special interest
                            ecosystems exceed the       relevant authorities in accordance     groups are allowed to have
                            carrying capacity.          with the CFR Estuarine Management      their views prevail on this
                                                        Program (7.3).                         issue of estuary mouth
                                                                                               breaching, and carrying
                                                                                               capacity and remain
                                                                                               unconvinced of the
                                                                                               benefits of ecologically
                                                                                               sound breaching regimes
                                                                                               and of enforcing
                                                                                               ecologically sound limits
                                                                                               to recreational use of the
                                                                                               estuaries.
(iv) Over-abstraction of    1. Water management         1. Water supply increased to meet      Political and hence
water from the CFR's        programs do not integrate   demand through effective alien         government support for
surface and ground water    biodiversity aspects.       woody plant removal programs in        Working for Water
resources leads to                                      catchment areas (see II (i)).          Program declines.
irreversible pollution of
freshwater aquifers by salt                             2. The Project will support the        Political support for water
water intrusion in coastal                              incorporation of biodiversity          conservation/water
areas.                                                  concerns into water                    demand management
                                                        conservation/water demand              programs is not
                                                        management program; (7.1).             forthcoming.

                                                        3. Over-abstraction prevented by the   Enforcement of the




                                                          67

Major                      Root causes                 Solutions including GEF                Risks
environmental                                          intervention (numbers =
threats                                                LFA subcomponent
                                                       addressing the issue)
                                                       rigorous implementation by well        "Ecological Reserve"
                                                       capacitated Catchment Management       measure is ineffective.
                                                       Authorities (7.1) of the "Ecological
                                                       Reserve" measure to all aquatic        Global climate change
                                                       ecosystems in the CFR (7.1).           leads to such significant
                                                                                              declines in water supply or
                                                                                              increases in water demand
                                                                                              in the CFR, that human
                                                                                              management of the system
                                                                                              becomes impossible.
III. Loss of biodiversity
(i) Alien species (plants  1. Introduction of ballast 1. Effective prevention (e.g. ballast   The alien fish angling
and fish) displace the     water.                     water introductions prevented           fraternity continue to
native species, most of                               through the GEF supported               promote their hobby, even
them threatened:                                       GloBallast southern African            once they have been
                                                      program).                               informed as to the
·    Marine organisms                                                                         unsustainable nature of
·    Aquatic plants        2. Currently, there is no  2. Control strategies and measures      this activity. In the worse
                           co-ordinated approach for  developed for the marine and            case scenario they could
                           controlling invasive       freshwater alien species, in co-        actively oppose the
                           species in priority areas  operation with the Centres of           control of alien fish in
                           for conservation.          Excellence in IAS management (7.2)      priority freshwater
                                                      and implemented as part of the          ecosystems and even
                                                      overall CFR IAS strategy (7.2); The     sabotage these pilot
                                                       Project will support piloting the      schemes by re-introducing
                                                       control invasive alien fish species in alien fish into cleared
                                                       three priority freshwater ecosystems   sections of rivers.
                                                       (7.2).
                                                                                              Control of aquatic
                                                                                              invasive alien plants does
                                                                                              not continue receiving
                                                                                              governmental support
                                                                                              (possibly mitigated by
                                                                                              2.1).
(ii) Over-exploitation of  1. Understanding of        1. Scientifically sound maximal         User groups remain
natural resources:         ecosystem fundamentals     sustainable use levels for major        unconvinced as to the
                           dictating sustainable off- exploited living resources are set and  desirability of controlling
Estuarine fish and bait    takes remains inadequate   implemented as part of the CFR          their off-take of exploited
organisms are declining.   at all levels.             Estuarine Management Program            species in the short-term
                                                      (7.3).                                  in the interests of
                                                                                              heightened harvestable
                                                                                              levels in the medium and
                                                                                              long-term.




                                                         68

Major                      Root causes                 Solutions including GEF                 Risks
environmental                                          intervention (numbers =
threats                                                LFA subcomponent
                                                       addressing the issue)
Marine resources -         1. The regulatory           1. The Project will support piloting    Elements in these user
linefish, abalone and West enforcement regime is       innovative management                   groups defy use
Coast rock lobster are in  imperfectly developed.      arrangements for sustainable use of     regulations and
serious decline, due to                                living coastal and marine resources     enforcement capacity or
poaching.                                              (5.2) ­ testing new co-management       social pressures are
                                                       arrangements with the fishing           inadequate to regulate this
                                                       communities; strengthening policing     illegal off-take (as is
                                                       capacities of conservation agencies;    currently being
                                                       designing of set asides as fishery      experienced with abalone
                                                       management tool.                        in the marine environment
                                                                                               of the CFR).
                           2. Awareness of viable      2. The Project will support a series of
                           alternative sustainable     strategic interventions which will
                           land-uses (tourism/         lead to establishing the foundations
                           sustainable flower          for a "biodiversity economy" (3.1,
                           harvesting) limited         3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5), which would
                           amongst landholders and     include a certification system for
                           capital markets.            responsible tourism and conducting a
                                                       marketing promotion campaign,
                                                       supported by a capacity building
                                                       program, a code of practice and
                                                       mechanisms to facilitate social
                                                       corporate investments.
Over-harvesting of wild    1. The regulatory           This work is being piloted through      Enforcement capacity of
fynbos for the flower      enforcement regime is       the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity      the relevant authorities
trade, herbal medicines or imperfectly developed.      Initiative and will not be duplicated   remains inadequate to
herbal teas may contribute                             in Phase 1 as the results of ABI will   regulate illegal off-take of
to extirpation of rare     2. The marginal costs of    be rolled out in the CFR during         these plant products.
species, including         ecosystem management to     Phase 2.
endemics.                  facilitate sustainable use
                           are not recovered; Profits
                           accrue elsewhere in the
                           value chain (high mark
                           ups ate retail end relative
                           to farm gate).

                           3. Market opportunities
                           are presently focused on
                           few selected flowers;
                           Indiscriminate market and
                           product focused value
                           chain. Niche market not
                           developed because of
                           supply driven market.
(iv) Pollution of                                      Fully capacitated CMAs (1.1) hold       Regulation and
freshwater ecosystems                                  pollution at acceptable levels, aided   enforcement of water
from agricultural,                                     in this by well defined water quality   quality management for
industrial and urban                                   criteria in the "Ecological Reserve"    CFR aquatic systems does
effluents.                                             measure developed for CFR systems       not receive adequate
                                                       (7.1) and by good guidelines as to      political support, and
                                                       how this can be achieved, derived       hence funding, so as to be
                                                       from the three water conservation/      effective.
                                                       water demand management pilot
                                                       programs (7.1).




                                                         69

Annex 6:        Socio-economic assessment

Involvement of stakeholders in C.A.P.E

During the process of formulating the CAPE 2000 Strategy, an extensive process of
stakeholder consultation and participation was undertaken, involving a systematic
identification of all stakeholders in the CFR who could influence biodiversity conservation or
be affected by it. Stakeholders were involved in developing the analysis, strategy and action
plan. Participation in the CAPE 2000 Strategy process was structured to allow different
degrees and levels of involvement by different groups, depending on their preference and on
the roles that they would play in implementation. Executing agencies that would be
responsible for the implementation of C.A.P.E. were involved closely in project governance
throughout the process in order to develop a sense of ownership and to guarantee long-term
sustainability of the initiative. A media campaign was undertaken to inform the broader
public of the CAPE 2000 Strategy process and outputs. Information was made available
through a website, brochures and public presentations.

In the period since September 2000, the commitment and involvement of government
agencies and other key stakeholders has been sustained and enhanced. Key stakeholder
partnerships, supported by two Memoranda of Understanding between government agencies
and other stakeholders, have guided preparation activities.

During the project preparation phase, a rapid assessment of stakeholder and social issues was
undertaken as part of project preparation in an effort to:

·   identify key stakeholders with respect to biodiversity conservation in the CFR;
·   review stakeholder interests and associated impacts on resource use and the project;
·   identify and mitigate against possible negative socio-economic impacts on local
    stakeholders resulting from the project; and
·   develop a mitigation strategy.

Project preparation was undertaken in a participatory manner, involving a broad range of
stakeholder groups using a number of different information gathering methods, including
formal and semi-formal interviews, group discussions and workshops, and literature review.
In addition, local consultants participating in project preparation provided information and
contributed to the identification of risks, impacts and mitigation strategies.

Key social issues

The key social issues relevant to the CFR, as identified in the project preparation stage were
analysed according to the following categories: (i) population; (ii) economy; (iii) cultural
history; (iv) governance and development; (v) perceptions of conservation; and (vi) capacity.

Population: The CFR covers two provinces, the Western and Eastern Cape, with a very small
portion falling into the Northern Cape. The region contains an estimated 5.2 million people,
most of whom inhabit the Western Cape province (est. 4.5 million). The population in the
region is highly urbanised, with over 70% of the Western Cape population living in the Cape
Metropolitan Area, and similar patterns pertaining in the portion of the CFR that falls into the
Eastern Cape province. The population of the Western Cape enjoys a greater degree of
human, economic and social development than their Eastern Cape counterparts. The Eastern



                                               70

Cape has the second lowest score on the Human Development Index of South Africa's nine
provinces. It also has the highest unemployment rate in the country and the second lowest per
capita income. This gives rise to relatively high levels of urbanization from rural areas in the
Eastern Cape to the Western Cape and Cape Town in particular. Urbanization rates have been
particularly high since the abolition of influx control policies in the late 1980's, leading to a
marked increase in urban informal settlements. Human and environmental health issues, fire
and flooding impose a distinct burden on resources, services and infrastructure of authorities.
The effect of this has been a reduced focus on rural development issues in this region in favor
of an increasing concern with urban development priorities. Urban environmental concerns
tend to focus on pollution and waste management with limited concern for biodiversity,
despite the impact of the urban system on ecosystems and habitat. This indicates a need for
increased awareness-raising and education activities amongst the urban communities of the
CFR.

The population of the region is characterized by diversity and disparities, in terms of
ethnicity, language, skills, income and resources. Between ethnic groups there are significant
disparities of skills, educational levels, incomes/wealth, living conditions and access to
opportunities, the result of a history of inequality and racially skewed allocation of resources.
Inequalities contribute to a range of social problems, including homelessness, poverty,
unemployment, degraded human environments and crime.

Economy: South Africa's Gross Domestic Product (ZAR 800-billion/USD130-billion) has
been increasing at about 2- 3% in real terms over the past four years, with manufacturing
contributing 20%, mining a declining share of 7% and the tertiary sector in excess of 60%.
Exports have increased from R100-billion in 1995 to R175-billion in 1999 notwithstanding a
significant decline in gold output. Per capita GDP (measured at PPP adjusted exchange rates)
exceeds US$7600, which equals that of Malaysia and Brazil. South Africa has an adult
literacy rate of 75%, an average unemployment level of 29,3%, a housing shortage of about
2,3 million units and an infant mortality rate of 42 per 1000.

In the 2000/1 Africa Competitiveness Report of the World Economic Forum, South Africa
ranks 7th out of the 51 countries on the continent. Internationally South Africa can been
ranked amongst "upper middle income countries" like Chile, Portugal, Korea, Malaysia,
Turkey, Brazil and Poland.

Since the political change of 1994, South Africa           has made great strides towards a
democratic, socially more equitable and economically more globally competitive country.
Recent growth in the South African economy has largely been based on the tourism sector, a
gradually diversifying and increasingly competitive manufacturing sector, value-adding
beneficiation of mineral and agricultural raw materials and a sophisticated trading, financial
and professional services sector. Currently, the country is lifting the level of education,
training and entrepreneurial development of its labour force, a critical factor in the creation of
more employment opportunities and greater international competitiveness.

The Western Cape produces 14% of the annual GDP of South Africa and is the second most
productive province. It generates nearly a quarter of the South African agricultural sector's
GDP (23%) and accounts for more than half of its agricultural exports. 85% of the arable land
in the Western Cape is under agriculture. The climatic and topographic diversity of the
province lends itself    to the production of various agricultural products, which can be
produced for specific domestic and overseas niche markets. The sector is able to generate on



                                               71

average 5.9% of the Western Cape's Gross Regional Product per annum and employs 9% of
the province's labour force.

Travel and tourism contribute 9.1% to the Western Cape Gross Regional Product, and 9.3%
to Western Cape employment. In order of preference, international visitors to South Africa
visited the following destinations: V&A Waterfront, Cape Point, Table Mountain, the
Winelands, the Garden Route, Kirstenbosch. Nature-based tourism offers significant
opportunities for economic growth and employment in both urban and rural areas.

In contrast to the Western Cape, the Eastern Cape produced only 8% of the National GDP in
1999. It is South Africa's second most populous province, with an unemployment figure of
49%. The metropolitan economy of Port Elizabeth, within the CFR, is based primarily on
manufacturing. Other major industries in the province include agriculture, textiles and
clothing, tourism, wool, timber and transport. With a significant shift in the agricultural
sector from stock to game farming, tourism is becoming a major growth industry.
Nevertheless, rural districts within the CFR such as the Baviaanskloof region face general
economic decline and growing socio-economic problems. Unless new initiatives such as
nature-based tourism come to the fore this decline is unlikely to be arrested.

Cultural history: The CFR is a rich repository of cultural history. A wide diversity of
historical artifacts, built environments and cultural traditions exist as reminders of the
region's Palaeolithic, pre-colonial and colonial history, as well as the Apartheid period.
C.A.P.E. presents distinct opportunities to both retain the character of the cultural history of
the region and build on it as an attraction.

Governance and development: Recent political and institutional changes, including the
democratization of local government, have created wide opportunities for participatory
development. Integrated Development Plans prepared recently by all local authorities in the
region indicate a wide array of interventions required for local development, including
provision of basic services and the promotion of economic and social development. C.A.P.E.
will align closely with the integrated development planning objectives of local government in
the CFR by ensuring that biodiversity concerns are incorporated into municipal land-use
planning in priority areas.

Perceptions of conservation: Throughout South Africa and the CFR, perceptions of
disadvantaged groups towards conservation are influenced by a history of colonial conquest
and land dispossession., Therefore, the C.A.P.E. will take these factors into account in its
design of the conservation education component. Capacity: There is a marked disparity in
capacity levels between different social groups in the CFR, particularly with regard to
participating in project activities. This factor has been closely addressed and incorporated
into the design and implementation of C.A.P.E. Three areas of consideration are important in
this respect:
·   disparities in knowledge levels between stakeholder groups with respect to a basic
    understanding of conservation and biodiversity in general and specifically in the CFR.
·   disparities in participation skills, as well as applied skills related to the implementation of
    key aspects of the C.A.P.E.
·   disparities   in   material    resources     at  the    disposal    of    stakeholder  groups.




                                                 72

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ili                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                     oryt                                                                                                                  each                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              conc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lopmente                                                                                                              Provincial
                         icipatr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       icip


                                pa                                                                                                             within                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     unctionsf                                                                                                                                                                                                         dev                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       deal                                                                                                             stakehold                                                                                                                                                                                                            onnw                                                                                                                                                                                                 partr                                                                                                                                                                                                                            makers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rnale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                              dra                                                                                                                                                                                                   ealc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ent                                                                                                                                                                                                              be
                                  this                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 int                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       National
                                      of                                                                                                             groupss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                                                                                                  economic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         decision-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       insle                                                                                                            d.                                                                                                                                tigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  mi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                enceer                                                                                                                                                                                                       tiona                                                                                                                tweeneb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    basis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             developm                                                                                                                                                                                                            listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ded

                                                                                                                                                            variou                                                                                                                          ro                                                                                                               itigm                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   terfin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            skills                                                                                                                                                                                                              spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  provi

                                        purposesroF                                                                                                               the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be                                                                                                                                   lictsf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ationin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   setl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wil                                                                                                                    rgo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                loped                                                                                                                                                                                                                                be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               conserv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     will
                                                                                                                                                                     out                                                                                                                      potential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             co-ord                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                deve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eirth                                                                                                        might                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ationpic                                                                                                                                                                                                   turean                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ipationc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rtiapre                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rtiap                                                                                                          undelliw                                                                                                                                                                                                      management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lict

                                                   society.                                                                                                             settinge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 manag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         these                                                                                                                                  Potential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                                                               ficials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                           conf                                                                                                                                                                                            blisheda                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rticipap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  est

                                                           civil                                                                                                                tabla                                                                                                                       Project,                                                                                                          how                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          co-opera                                                                       rtmentsa                                                                       :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                              onflictc

                                                                                                                                                                                     is                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :st                                                                                                                                                               akeholdtse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     elindi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ameworksfr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bell
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gu                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                   external                                                                          quiredere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         wi
                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              stakeholder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eiv                                                                                                                                                                                            contending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nflicoc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ckla                                                                                                                                                 uress                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    kersa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     wher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              mea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      es                                                                                                                                        in

                                                                                                                                                                                       Below                                                                                                                           omrf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            percya                                   relationship                                                                                                                                                 ingc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    groups                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              network


                                                                                                                                                                                            rests.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        derl                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ntialteoP                                                                                                                                                                  M                                              poor                                                                                                                                                 Balan                                                                                                                  bleissoP                                                                    Government                                                                                                                                                                                                      Policies                                                                                                           Decision-m                                                                          participation                                                                                                                       A                                                                             conflicts                                                                                                     Institutions                                                                                  guidelin                                                                                                                                  Support

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mitigat
                                                                   government                                                                                                                     inte
                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            deriveyam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              stakeho                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nday                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eyth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tega                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                              key
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                andlta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y,ic                                                                                ties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        activities                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         y,                                                                                                                                                                                           funding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          aking                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                    polt                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sourceert                                                                                                                 socio-t                                                                                                                   ion
                                                                               spectrum                                                                                                               respective                                                                                                                        that                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            onment                                                                                                                                                                                                               rams,g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -mn                                                                                                                                                  coassa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ac

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wledge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       yt                                                                                                                                    ojecrP                                                                                onit                                                                                                                                        ojecrP                                                      itiesvi                                                     ojecrP                                                               pment                                            ucat                                                  ties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     authority                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            act                                                                                                                                                                            ed                                                    ivi
                                                                                       full                                                                                                                     their                                                                                                                       itsf                                                                                                          each                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                  licopl,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              to                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                       lega                                  enviry                                                                                                                                               baseline                                                                                                                                                                             Water                                                                                                                        cisio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                         key                                                                                                                    or                                                                                                                           de                                                                                                                                                 chus,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        kno                                                                                                                                                                                                                  education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nte                                                                                                                         veloed

                                                                                           the                                                                                                                       ofs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       acts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          acts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                bene                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sourceser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gulaer,y                                                                                                                                        ants                                                                                                                    ants                                                                                                                  ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Role                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        term                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                         respect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Setter                                regulator                                                                                                                                                Provider                                                    through                                                                                                               Working                                                                                                                         Ultim                                                                      management                                                                    res                                                                                                                        marine                                                                                                                Provider                                                                        information                                                                                                                                Support                                                         awarenes                                                                                                                                 Particip                                                                              strateg                                                                                                                                     Particip                                                     nagemam                                                    Particip                                                            economic                                          Recipi                                               awarenes
                                                                                              cover                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                         stse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                   ·

                                                                                                   oject                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   terin                                                                                                       with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                        Pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           een                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        andg                                                                                                                                                                      and

                                                                                                          the                                                                                                                 categories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ariseyam                                                                                                      ntiale                                                                                                                               tweb                                                                                                                          nmenter                                                                      with                                                                                                                             entm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ern                                                                                                                                                                                          pmentloe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ationin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            policy                                                                                                              key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SMMEs,                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               licy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                urismto,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sourceser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      fundin                                                                                                            with
                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        into                                                                                                                    potentialeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   that                                                                                                        sts/pot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aligns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            govla                                                                                                                                                                                             dev                                                                iversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       use                                                                                                                                                                                                              co-ord                                             ratione
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cultur                                                                added                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                                                                                                              ent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              biod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co-op
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    agri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Co-operative                                           governance                                                                                                                            spheres                                                                    Project                                                                                                                            nation                                                                                                   socio-economic,                                                                        taxation,                                                                   and                                                                                                                             conservation                                                                                                       Promotion                                                                                       economic                                                                                                                           as                                                               value-                                                                                                                 manufacturing                                                                           Optimize                                                                                                                                    government                                                              through                                                  and                                                           Access                                             resources                                                     Alignm                                                education                   programs
                                                                                                               involved                                                                                                                     grouped                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Intere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ries,o                                                                                                     nflicts                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                ·
                                                                                                                       be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   been
                                                                                                                         to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       categ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,y                                                                                                                        re,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,y                                                                                                                                                                                                             South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       have                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ment                                                                                     ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   care                                                         ment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      hedsil                                                  gementa
Analysis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        potential              category                                                                                       NTE                    ment,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Forestrd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    includ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Land                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tab                                                      Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           they                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on                                                                                                              MN                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rtments,a                                                                                                                                                                                                        an                                                                                                                 ricultugAfo                                                                                                                                             ism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Environmentfo                                                                    Tour                                                                                                                            CultutrAfo                                                                                                                                                                                               South,yvaN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 mentega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rvice,eS                                                                        Servicee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Water,                                                           Wetlands,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Parliament
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            govern                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for                                                                 for                                                       e,                                                       govern                                                                                                             Ministers                                                    of                                man                          es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technolog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       national
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Govern                                                                                                                                                                                                 dep                                                                Department                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tcar
                                                                                                                           stakeholders                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Affairs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                   nte                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                              Police                                                                          venueR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  African
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             National                                                                                programs,                                                                                                                                 Working                                                             Working                                                      Coas                                                     National                                                 decision-makers                                              including                                             Members                            Resource                    ructurests         through       government,           Catchment Agencies

        Stakeholder                                                                                                                    The                                                                                                                     approach                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                    reflection                                                                                                                                                                                                     :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Stakeholder                                                                                 GOVER National as National including Water Department Department Affairs Departm Science South African African ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·

                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ate
                                                                                                                       ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ili                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                cialsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 off                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ili                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           y
                                                                                                                          lead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mentst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           conc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       re                                                                                                                                                                                        conc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lopmente                                                                                                                                   depar                                                                                                                                                                                                   ing
                                                                                                                              unctionsf                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dev
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ment                                                                                                                                                                                                  deal                                                                                                                     stakehold                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      onnw                                                                                                                                                                                                icip                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lopmente                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         partr                                                                                                                                                                                                                         makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                unctionsf                                                                                                                                                                                            dev                                                                                                                    Provincial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   deal                                                                                                            stakehold                                                                                                                                                                                     onnw                                                                                                                                                                        icip
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    partr                                                                                                                                                                        makers
                                                                                                                                       rnale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                                                                           in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dra                                                                                                                                                                                                      ealc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         andl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   for                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                       dra                                                                                                                                                                              ealc
                                                                                                                                            int                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rnale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ent                                                                                                                                                                                       be                                                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                                                                                                             economic                                                                                                                                 Govern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     int
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     economic                                                                                                                          tiona                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           decision-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                 enceer                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tiona                                                                                                                               tweeneb                                                                                                                                                                                            easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    basis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                            Na                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 basis                                                                                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                developm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ded                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     enceer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              developm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                           ded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tiona                                                                                                                         ithw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         listsaic                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                       terfin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           skills                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  provi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     skills                                                                                                                                                                                       spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         provi

                                                                                                                                                             as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ationin                                                                                                                                                                                                setl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       terfin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            setl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               wil                                                                                                                            rgo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             loped                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              conserv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wil                                                                                                                   rgo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    loped                                                                                                                                                                            be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conserv

                                                                                                                                                               ationpic                                                                                                                                                                                                              turean                                                                                                                                co-ord                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  deve                                                                                                                                                                                                                           will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ipationc                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mente                                                                                                                                    management                                                                                                                                                                                                    nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 turean                                                                                                                     co-ordin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               deve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ipationc                                                                                                                                                                                        mente
                                                                                                                                                                       rtiapre                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rtiap                                                                                                                  undelliw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ationpic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   undelliw                                                                                                                                                                               management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             manag                                                                                                                                         lict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rtiap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              manag                                                                                                             lict

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             for                                                                                                                       ficials                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            for                                                                                                              ficials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conf                                                                                                                                                                                               blisheda                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rticipap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rtiapre                                                                                                                                                                                       needs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               es                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                    conf                                                                                                                                                                       blisheda                                                                                                                                                                        rticipap

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         co-opera                                                                                                                                                                                                    elindi                                                                                                                        and                                                                                     onflictc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                est
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     co-opera                                                                               rtmentsa                                                                                                                                                                                                            elindi                                                                                                               and                                                                onflictc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            est


                         s:tc                                                                                                                                                 akeholdtse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         external                                                                                                                                                                                                  bell                                                                          ameworksfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bell                                                        ameworksfr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ures:                                                                                                                                     gu                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                           quiredere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               akeholdtse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                     dep                                                                                                                                                                                                               gu                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                          external                                                 quiredere

                                                                                                                                                                                        eiv                                                                                                                                                                                                       contending                                                                                                                                      ckla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kersa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               wi                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                kersa                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                            wi                                                                and                                                                                                    stakeholder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     easm                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          wher                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s:tc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                es                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       eiv                                                                                                                                                                               contending                                                                                                                             ckla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wher                                                                                                                                                                                     es                                                                                                             in

                             conflil                                                                                                                                                       percya                                              relationship                                                                                                                                                 ingc

                                                                                                                                                                                                 M                                                         poor                                                                                                                                                 Balan                                                                                                                                 bleissoP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           easm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conflil                                                                                                                                                                    percya                                 relationship                                                                                                                                      ingc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Policies                                                                                                                   Decision-m                                                                                 participation                                                                                                                                          A                                                conflicts                                                                                                                                     Institutions                                                                           guidelin                                                                                                                                      Support                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                                            poor                                                                                                                                      Balan                                                                                                                        Possible                                                                            Government                                                                                                                                                                                                          Policies                                                                                                          Decision-m                                                            participation                                                                                                              A                                                    conflicts                                                                                                         Institutions                                                         guidelin                                                                                                       Support

                                    Potentia                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                        ·                                                             Mitigat                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                              Potentia                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                   Mitigat                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tega                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    y,ic                                                                                                 ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             key

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               str                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                           andlta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               knowledge                                                                                                                                                                                          y,                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                polt                                                                                                 tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ac                                                                                                                                                    sourceert                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y,ic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              activities                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       socio-t                                                                                                                                                                                                                ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                knowledge                                                                                                                                                                      polt                                                                                                                                tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ac                                                                                             sourceert                                                                                                                                                                        socio-t                                                                                                   activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ion
                                                         decision-makingd                                                                                                                                                                                               of

                                                                         an                                                                                                                                                                                               user                                                                                                                                                                                      licopl,                                                                                                                onment                                                                                                                                                                                                              yt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 onit                                                                                                                                                                                                      itiesvi                                                                                                                                                                                                                     pment                                                                                                                    ucat                                   ties                                                                                                                                                                       decision-makingd                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              onit                                                                                                                                                     itiesvi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  pment                                                                    ucat                                                                                                           ties                                                                                                                                                                                coassa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ivi                                                                                                                       ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                         ojecrP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                         ojecrP
                                                                           ngi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         education                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ed                                     ivi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             user
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                  act                                                                                                                        in                                                                                                                                                                                  ed                                                                                                             ivi                                                            authority

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                          lega                                                                                                                  enviry                                                                         to                                                                                                                                  acts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 veloed                                                                    of                                                                                                              acts                                                                                                                                                                               chus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ants                                                                                               gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                             in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                    veloed                                                                                                                                                            acts                                                                                                                                                                                  ngi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ants                                                                                                                                                                           ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ants                                                                                                                              gulaer,y                                                                                                  ants                                                                                                                                                                           ants                                                                                                                                                                                  ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sourceser
                                                                              plann                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        plann

                                                                                   Key                      functions                                                                                                                                                            Provider                                                       and                                                                                                                              Setter                                                                                                                regulator                                                                  Support                                                                                                                               awarenes                                                                                                                       Particip                                                                                               strateg                                                                                                                                                      Particip                                      nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Particip                                                                                 economic                                                                                                                  Recipi                                awarenes                                                                                                                                                                                  Key                           functions                                                                                                                                               Provider                                            and                                                                                                                      Particip                                                                                                                              strateg                                                                                               Particip                                            nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Particip                                                                                                    economic                                                                  Recipi                                                                                                        awarenes                                                         Management                                                                                                               res                                                   marine

                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                  ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      key
                                                                                           een
                                                                                              tweb                                                                                                                         nmenter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 andg                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             locald                                                                                                               pment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         andg                                                                                                                                   een
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       an                                                                                                                                                                                                             policy                                                                                                                 key                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SMMEs,                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                  ationin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           licy                                                                  with                                                                                                                                                                              an                                                                                                                                                                                     policy                                                                                                                                                                                                             astructurer                                                                              an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                          ationin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nmenter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  urismto,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sourceser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sourceser                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tweb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  use                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fundin                    with                  po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         veloed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fundin                                                                                                                                                      gov          knowledge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                aligns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co-ord                          ratione                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ratione
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cultur                                                                       added                                                                                                                                                                                                               ise                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                      ent                                                                                     aligns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     supports                                                                                inf,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        co-ord                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                       of                 to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  co-op                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co-op
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          agri
                                            Co-operative                                          governance                                                                                                                           spheres                                                                               Project                                                                                                     socio-economic                                                                                                                         development                                                             biodiversity                                                                                                                               conservation                                                                                                          Promotion                                                                                              economic                                                                                                                                      as                                                                      value-                                                                                                              manufacturing                                                                                 Optim                                                                                                                    government                                      through                               and             Access  resources        Alignm           education programs                                                        Project                                           socio-economic                                                                                                          development                                                                biodiversity                                                                                                    conservation                                                                                                                            Project                                                                             planning                                                                    development                                                                                                             economic                                                                                                 functions                                                                    Optimize                                                                                                            government                                                      through                                                                                                              and                                                             Access                                                                                             resources Co-operative         governance             spheres            Access

                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                        ·                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                  ·                                                        ·


such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     as
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ments,tra                                                                              lture,                                                                                                                      fairs                                                                                                                                   t                                                                                                                                                                                                        mentn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aturl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Af                                                                                                                                                                                                     Education                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           chus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cilors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           caloL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e                                                                                     and                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                             dep                                                                                 Agricu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                              gover                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Members                                                                                                                                    tiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Legis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nt,e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    coun

    Government,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Developmen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Execu                                                                                itteesm                                                                                                             ofsr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               alsci                                                                                                                                African                                                                                                                                                           tionai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               mbe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 offi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Provincial                                                                             including                                                                                                              Environment                                                                                                                                 and                                                                  Planning,                                                                                                                          Provincial                                                                                                         decision-makers                                                                                       including                                                                                                                                   the                                                                                    Com                                                                                                                 Me                                                                                  Provincial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Governml                                                                           Individual                                                                                                       municipalities,                                                                     municipal                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                outhS                                                                    Government                                                                              Assoc
                                                                                        :
               Provincial                                                                as                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Loca                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·

                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y
                                                                                                                                              ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                oft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                              ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          herto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              herto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          con                                                                                                                                 holderek                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ili                                                                                           cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tion                                                                                                                                                                                                 off
                                                                                                                                                 lead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ing                                                                                                                                                                                                          on                                                                                                  icip                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contex                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       promoting                                                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                    on                                                                                                                                                                                        with                                                                                                                                     stalal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                conc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       contex                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             promoting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lopmente                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       deal                                                                                             stakehold                                                                                                                                                                                                        partr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ipacit                                                                                              to                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               makers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ing                                                                                                                                        of                                                               approachy                                                                            par
                                                                                                                                                     unctionsf                                                                                                                                                                             dev                                                                                                   departments                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                                                                                                                                     drawn                                                                                                      ealc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ator
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ent                                                                                                  be                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 interests                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          deal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              agencies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              derl                                                                                         onnw                                                                                             makers                                                                                                                                                                              interests
                                                                                                                                                              rnale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     will                                                                                                                                                                                            decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     with
                                                                                                                                                                   int                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         basis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                implementers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       implementers

                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                      economic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                   Government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to
                                                                                                                                                                        enceer                                                                                                                                                                           tiona                                                                                                        ithw                                                                                                                                   easmtuotesl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                akehost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 developm                                                                                                listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                             tod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          eedsnethteem                                                                iciprtapeth                                                                           in                                                                                         will                                                                                          decision-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         skills                                                                                                  spe                                                                                                                                                                                             provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conflicts                                                                                                                                                                                                conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           conflicts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          conservation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           hand,                                                                                                                                                                                  easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ess                                                                                                                                                  entm                                                                                         listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        hand,

                                                                                                                                                                              terfin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wil                                                                                                    rgo                                                                                                                                                                                                       loped                                                                                          be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                   one
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               addr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      provi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                one

                                                                                                                                                                                    as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ationin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    setl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           objectiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              conserv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ipationc                                                                                               undelliw                                                                                                                                                                                                    deve                                                                                        will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           wil                                                                                                                                       to                                                                                                                                                veloped                                                                                                                                                                                               be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       mente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      manageme                                                                                                    nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eadlyam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          stsiy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eadlyam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    applies                                                                                                                                    stsiy
                                                                                                                                                                                      ationpic                                                                                                                                                                       turean                                                                                                      co-ord                                                                                                                                            rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  edir

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            manag                                                             lict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   government                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              requ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          this                                                                                                                                     lobb
                                                                                                                                                                                              rtiapre                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               management                                                                                              ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for                                                                                               ficials                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  erg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                               conf                                                                                               blisheda                                                                                      iciprtap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tiona                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lobb                                                                                                                                                                                      ipationc                                                                                                                                 seekyle                                                                                                                                                skillso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tiona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    erv                                                                                                                                                                                                        with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       erv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tion                                                                                                                                             es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     where                                                                      est                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      being                                                                                                                                                                                         rtiap                                                                                                                                   tivca                                                                  principles                                                                                                                                                                      lict
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                where                                                                                                                                    being
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             needs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           elindi                                                                                                and                           onflictc                                                                                              tsci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        roles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          undl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 will                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                       conf                                                                                           rticipap                                                                                                                                                                               conse

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      external                                                                                                  bell                ameworksfr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         conse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            wil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      roles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co-opera                                                                                                                                             gu                                                                                                                                    and

                                                            s:tc                                                                                                                                     akeholdtse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       kersa                                                                                                   of                                                                                                    wi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           confl                                                                                              and                                                          stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 development                                                                                                                                                                                                          function                                                                                                                                       between                                                                                                                                                                                            elindi                                                                                                                                 itiesvi                                                                    withg                                                                        tersne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    function                                                                                                                                 between
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   external                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               naturno
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                te                                                                                               es                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    naturno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            quiredere

                                                                                                                                                                                                               eiv                                                                                                                                                                contending                                                                                                            ckla              ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lia                                                                                                                                                                            als                               s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           roles                                            ures:                                                                                                                                            gu                                                                                                                                      act                                                                                                                                                                   gementa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                         stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            roles                                         ures:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               easm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       confusion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                plem                                                                                                                                                                                                             s:tc                                                                                                                                                                 cus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                in                                               easm                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                      and                                                                   keepin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                          im                man                                                                                            wher                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               confusion                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in

                                                                conflil                                                                                                                                           percya                                                   relationship                                                                                                     ingc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M                                                              poor                                                                                                     Balan                                                                                                       bleissoP                                                                                                                                    Policies                        conflict                                                           Decision-m                       participation                                                              A                             conci                                                            Institutions                 guidelin                                                             Support     offici                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              easm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 conflil                                                                                                                                                                                        foyar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 foyar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                         ·                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           imrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      network                                                                                                            conflil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  socio-economic                                                                                                                                                   Potential                                        implementation                                                                                                                                       Conflict                                                                                                                                                                                        Policies                                                                                                                                 Projects                                                                   groups                                                                      Project            conflict                                                                        A               conflicts                                                                      Support                                                                                                                                                                               imrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-economic                                                                                                                                                                    Potential                                                                 implementation                                                                                                                                 Conflict

                                                                       Potentia                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                              ·                 Mitigat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                             Mitigat                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                            ·                                                                                                    ·            Potentia                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                          Mitigat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           y,
                                                                                                 esci                                                                                                                                                                                      re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                po                                                                                                                                                                                                              ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ni

                                                                                                     agen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                         ting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 set                                                                                                                                                              rtaec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     edu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rtaec                                                                                                                                                                                    y,ic                            75
                                                                                                         ng                                                                                                                                                                                  akeholdst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               broad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                      polt
                                                                                                           enti                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ocessesrp                                       lationu                                                                                                                                                              ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                     owledge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ag                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eachr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ationm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ag                                                                                                                                                                                    ojecrP
                                                                                                               plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                            reg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           kn                               dies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             training                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                   imy                                                                                                    decision-makers                                                                 tato                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                bo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               infor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ants                                           andy                                                                                                                                                             enting                                 ancts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tosm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   stsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    enting                                    s                                                                                                                                                 ants
                                                                                                                      Ke                                                                                                                 Key                                                                  Facili                                                                                  participation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     plem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             echanis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   plem
                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                   ·                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Particip                                       strateg                                                                                                                                                                Im                                circum                                                                                                                                                                             Research                          generation                                                                                                                                                   M                                public                                                                                                                                   Lobby                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sources                                                                                                                         knowledge                                                                                                      Providers                                            resources                                                                                                                                                                                 Im                                  insta                                                                                                                                             Particip

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                           ·


                                                                               es                                          de                                                                                                                             la                                                                                                                                                                   ces                                                                                                           ces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                for


                                                                                 objectiv                                    lignayle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             our                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tion                                                                                                                                                                     res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 es                                                  ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ide                                                                                                                                                                                    ide                                                                                                                                                                                                ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                                            ot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                zai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ourser
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tos                                                                                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ize                                                                                                                     es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 missionsla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         to                                                                         ern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    prov                                                                                                                                                                                   prov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                orla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sisab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      prov
                                                                                                                                     clos                                                                                                                          organ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      objectiv
information                                                                              Project                                         are                                                                                                                            to                                                 missions                                                                                                        Acces                                                                                                         Optim                      through                                                                                          act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ignedalyel                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sourcere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           missions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        can                                                                                                         to                                                                         can                                                                                                                                                                                                   ce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            objectiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               can


           and                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Project                                               clos                                                                                                                              organization                                                                                                    ojectrP                                                                                                    ssecca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decision-making                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ignedalyel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ojectrP                                                                                                             opportunities                                                                    influen                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project                                                                                                                         clos                                                    organization                                         individual                                                                                                                                           ojectrP                                                                                                                                                                                  earch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        programmatic                                                                                       res

                DIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·
                    BO                 chus,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                            es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          zationsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                andt                                                                                                                        as:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rums                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ciety                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          itutes                                                                                                     tanical                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,g..e,s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                African                                                                                          Parksl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 So                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             alis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Organ                                                                                                                    yar                                                                                                                                                                                                  etyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bo

                                              Agenci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NGOs,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Socl                                                                     and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ecipS                                                                                                                  such,                                                                                                                 insty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       forum

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Western                                                            Nature                                                                                        Conservation                                                                                      Board                                             South                                                                                           Nationa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Estul                                                                                                                                                                                                     cania                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Africa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ildlife                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Resource                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        National                                                                                                                                                                                                                           earch
                                                    ervation                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Conservancies                                                                                                                                                                   Biosphere                                                                                                                   Loca                                               Management                                                                                                                                             Bot                                                                       W                                                                                                                 Environment                        South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ervation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Biodiversit                                                                                                      e.g.                                                                                    Institute                                                                                                                               Res

                      CONSERVATION Cons as                                                                                :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Conservation                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Natural                                                                   Cons                                                                                                                 Research                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           yr
                                                               lictf
                                                                    con                                                                                                                               holderek                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                          ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ili                                                                                                                                              cialsi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    urt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ipato
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                off                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   con                                                                                                                                    holderek                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ili                                                                                           cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             with                                                                                                                                                                            lal                                                                                                  tic

                                                                       with                                                                                                                                   stalal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tion                                                                                                                                                                                                 off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          conc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ipacit                                                                                                                                                                                to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ing                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                   par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  par                                                                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in
                                                                           ing                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                         approachy                                                                                                      ipacit                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cio-os                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with                                                                                                                                        stalal                                                                                                                                                                                                 ipacit                                                                                              to                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                               biodiversity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    par                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ing                                                                                                                                           of                                                                       approachy                                                                                                                     par                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                thefo                                                                                                                                                                                        derl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      drawn
                                                                              deal
                                                                                  for


                                                                                     easuresmtuo                                                                                                                      eedsnethteem                                                                                                                      ator                                                                                                           derl                                                                                                                                                     onnw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 biodiversity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ator                                                                                                                    derl                                                                                         onnw                                                                                             makers                                                                                                                                                                                                     fore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            iciprtapeth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          fore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         thos                                                                                                                                                                            busine                                                                                                                                interests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ect                                                                                                                                                                                     akehost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           akehost                                                                                                                                                     be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lsilks,se                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eedsnethteem

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  thos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     akehost                                                                                         be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      obj                                                                                                                                                                                         in                                                                                                                                                                           will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                     will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ourc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 decision-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          differing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              goals,                                                                                                                                                                                inte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              entm                                                                                                                                                                           listsaic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            entm                                                                                                                                                     listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ariseyam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              esl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ded                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          easuresmtuo                                                                                                                           eedsnethteem                                                                        iciprtapeth                                                                                                                    in                                                                                         will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           stsre

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ded                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             spe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            goals,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ess                                                                                                                                                                                                   entm                                                                                         listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            sic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    easmtuotesl                                                                                                                                                                          addr                                                                                                     cip
                                                                                                setl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pursuing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wil                                                                                                                                                                           to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            veloped                                                                                                                                                                               nt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        addr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                    wil                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                                                             objectiv                                                                                                     veloped                                                                                                                                                      spe                                                                                                                                                provi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lack                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 setl                                                                                                                                         addr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    spe                                                                                             provi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     objectiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       onomic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 prineth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            onomic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         aten                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    skillso

                                                                                                       ipationc                                                                                                                               seekyle                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ipationc                                                                                                                                                                     seekyle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               skillso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ofltusera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            wil                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                 veloped                                                                                                                                                                                               be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ac


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ipationc                                                                                                                                    seekyle                                                                                                                                                                                                 skillso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     groupsre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    manageme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tivca                                                                                                 with                                                                                                                                                                                         erg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lict
                                                                                                               rtiap                                                                                                                                 tivca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            erg                                                                                                                                               management                                                                                                                                                 ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                socio-ec                                                                                                                                                                                               as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        erg                                                                                   management                                                                                              ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      principles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    threyam                                                                                                                                    ehold                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          undl

                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  undl                                                                                                                                                     lict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rtiap                                                                                                                                      tivca                                                                          principles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 conflict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   undl                                                                                         lict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     promote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                conf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    stak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            keeping                                                                                                                                                                                         wil

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          will                                                                                                                                  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ateipc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 for                                                                                                                                        will                                                                                the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          business-focu
                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rticipap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          arise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                promote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                   es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                wil                                                                                          conf                                                                                           rticipap                                                                                                                                                                                                     tos                                                                                                                                                                                   ect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                       elindi                                                                                                                                                                     itiesvi                                                                                                   ps                                                                                                                                                                                        tersne                                       gementa

                                                                                                                         elindi                                                                                                                               itiesvi                                                                                                                              withg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            herto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tersne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      toyt                                                           rise                                                                                                                                                                                 elindi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      need                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oni                                                                                                                                                                          gu                                                                                                                                                                          act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              man                                                                                                                         external
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    plem                                                                                                                                                                              of
                                                                                                                               gu                                                                                                                                    act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gementa                                                                                              external                                                  quiredere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tos                arise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           itiesvi                                                                            withg                                                                                                                 tersne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      may

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          need                 may                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               external            quiredere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    objyit                                                                                                                                     with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               give                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        entat                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                               groure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         lict
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      plem                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     aci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gu                                                                                                                                         act                                                                                                                                                                                                                    gementa
                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                             keepin                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   keepin                                                                                                                 plem                                                                                            of                                                                                         stakeholder                               s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ures:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                          im                                                man                                                                                                                                                              wher                                                                                          in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cap                                                             may
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                       easm                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                 in                                                                                                                   im                man                                                                                            wher                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               plem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Contending                                                        conservation                                                                                                          Biodivers                                                                                                                                Conflicts                                                                                                          im                                            easm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        network

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               conflil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     network                                                                                                                                conflil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Policies                                                           conflict                                                                                                  Projects                                                                                             stakehold                                                            approach                                                                                                                 Project                                            and                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ing
                                                                                                                                    Policies                                                                                                                               Projects                                                                                                                             groups                                                                                                      Project                                            conflict                                                                                                    A                                                     conflicts                                                                                   Support                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Contending          conservation                                                                                                                                                                          Lack                                                          factors                                                                                                                                                                              Policies                                                                                                                                    Projects                                                                           groups                                                                                                               Project            conflict                                                                        A               conflicts                                                                      Support                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·

                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                            Potentia                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                         Mitigat                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                            ·                                                                                                    ·                                Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mitigat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          key                                                  yam                                                                                                                                                                                      y,ic                                                                                                                               ties

                ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 polt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tivi                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  socio-t

                    tivi
                        ac                                                                                                                                              sourceert                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y,ic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  polt                                     tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ac                                                                                                                                                                 sourceert                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     activities                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             socio-t                                                                                                                                                                                   ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                          knowledg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      thesee                                                                                                                stse                                                                    ojecrP                                                                                                                               onit                                                                                                                      ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ojecrP                                            pment                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ucat                                     ties                                                                                                                                                                                                information

                          onit                                                                                                                                                   ojecrP                                                                                                                  itiesvi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ojecrP                                     onit                                                                                                                                                                      ojecrP                           itiesvi                                                                                                                                                                 ojecrP                                                                pment                                                                                                           ucat                                 ties                                                                                                                                                                                         ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          wher                                                                                                                terin                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ed                                       ivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ivi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         opponents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        localized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es                                                                                                                   th                                                                     ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ants                                                                                management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          veloed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         acts
                              gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nte
                                                                                                                                                                                         ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ants                                   gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                                    in                                                                                                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      veloed                                                                                                           of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      acts                                                                                                                                                                                    localis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              wi                                                                                                                                                                                                    gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es                                                                                                                                   ents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ants                                                                                                                                                                                                     ants                                                                                                                                                                                  ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ativ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         iviti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Possibly                                                  initi                                                                                                              clash                                                                  Particip                                                                                                                             strateg                                                                                                                   Particip                                                                                  resource                                             act                                                                                                                                       Particip                                         economic                                                                                           act                                                                                                                               Recipi                                  awarenes                                                                                                                                                 Source                                        knowledge

                                      strateg                                                                                                                                                Particip                                                                                                                 nagemam                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Particip                                   strateg                                                                                                                                                                   Particip                          nagemam                                                                                                                                                                Particip                                                             economic                                                                                                         Recipi                              awarenes                                                                                                                                                                                     Source  information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            its
                                                                                                                                                       s
                                             ide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ide                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ncea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                                                                                                            ern                                                                                                                                                       ationm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ces                                                                                                                                                                                                                nom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mico                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         er

                                                prov                                                                                                    sourcere                                                                                                                                                                prov                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           our                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 natural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         gov                                                                                                                                                          infor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       res                                                                                                                                                                                                             ecola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          econ                                                                                                                                                         stebla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           prof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  asset                                                                                                  ov                                                                                              garder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              velopmented                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      resources
                                                    can                                                                                                         to                                                                                                                                                                  can                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ce                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                            TERESNI                                                                     tos
                                                       ojectrP                                                                                                    ssecca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          decision-making                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Economic                                           development                                                                                                            opportunities                                                  Opportunities                                                                                                                            maximize                                                                                                                              Land                                                                                 opportunities                                                                    Opportunities                                                                                              exploit                                                resources                                                                                                                                                                                                Improved                  base                                                                      Influence                                                                                           decisions                                                             CFR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ojectrP                                                                                            opportunities                                                                                                       influen                                            and                                                                                                         Access                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Acces                               information                                                                                                                                                                Agricultur                                development                                                                                                                        opportunities                                                                                    Generating                               benefits                                                                                                              Agricultur                                                                                                      pract                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                    ·

                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                              ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rs                                                                                                                 se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tions

Arid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 anningpl                                                                                                                          al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    or                                                                                                                                                      de                utestit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ses,i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tour                                                                                                                                                                                                                            anip                                                 la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ectsla                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPMENT                    as:                                                                                                                  ersmraf                                                                                                   sre                                                                                                                                                                                 ciaos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ent                                                                                                                                                                                      Sa                                                                                                       operato
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       As
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 own                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :sa                                                                     &                                                                                                                                                                                                                             com

    Forum,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               individu                                                                                                      ers                                                                                                                                                                                                                bodies                                                                                       -basyti                ins,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ers                                                             such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   er                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e-sgral                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  enterpr                                                                                                                                om

                                                                                                                                              Forum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Us                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Telk                                                                                                                                                               pmloe

          nbosyF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                earch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         units                                                                                                                                                                        rcialem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                including                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SABS                                                                                                         Tourism                                                                                                            inghsiF                                         Agricultur                                                                                                            product                                                         beneficiators
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          earch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      earch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and

                                                                                                                                                   Zone                                                                                                                                              Res                                                                                                                         bodies,                                                                                                       res                                     consultants                                                                                                   Agricultur                                                 research                                                                                      Univers                     res      and                                                                                                                                                                            Com                                                                                               Absentee                                                                                                                                                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          velopmented                                                                                                                                                                                       public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    devl                                                                                                          chus,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        diume                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  aniesp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      esi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Eskom,                                                                                            etn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                  ·                                                  ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                     ECONOMIC Landowners, ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                                                             business,                                                                                                                   Land                                                          com                                                                                                                            National                                                                                                                              e.g.                                                                                           Trans                                                              Nationa                                                                                                           agenc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   yr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             with                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rsitye                                                                                                                                                                                          urt
                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       itysre                                                                                    lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ipato
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   con                                                                       holderek                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ili                                                                                           cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tic                                                                                                       insp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        keeping                                                                                                                                                                                                                         conc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        cio-os                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             with                                                                                                                                          lal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                   par
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             biodiv
                                                   makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cio-os                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   with                                                                           stalal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          roug
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          biodiv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               in                                                                                                                       ipacit                                                                                              to                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           or                                                                                                                                                                                    antagonisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              biodiversity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or                                                                                                                                                                       antagonisms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ing                                                                              of                                                               approachy                                                                                                                                                                                                         par                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          up                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 deal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thefo                                                                                                       derl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   rsuing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pu
                                                         decision-
                                                                  tod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      those                                                                                                                                                                                     lsilks,se                                                                                                                                                                         up                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    deal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sety                                                                                                                                                                                                      mic                                                                                           for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ourc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eedsnethteem                                                            ator                                                                        oups                                                                                                                            derl                                                                                         onnw                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     fore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sety                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         iciprtapeth                                                                 grre                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lsilks,se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              thos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ma                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ures                                                                                                                                 eedsnethteem                                                                                                                   ect                                                                                                    akehots

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         holde                                                                                                                       akehost                                                                                         be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ourc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  herto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t                                                                              in                                                                                         will                                                                                          decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           res
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                with                                                                                                                                                                                              res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-econo                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                        of
                                                                     provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                                                                        ocesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                es                                                                      stakre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                     ocesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ess

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ess                                                                                                                                                                                               ojecrp                                                                          entm                                                                                         listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  goals,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ded                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lack                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       easmtuotesl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        obj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  esl                                                                                                       toyll

                                                                            be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     oth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     addr                                                                                                                     cip
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    conflict                                                                                                                                                                                           lack                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    setl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              uaqe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               addr                                                                                                                                                    to                                           the                                                                                                                                                                            spe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   provi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   onomic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ct                                                                                                                 making                                                                                 groups                                                                                                                                                           wil
                                                                              will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            may
edir                                                                              ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               goals                                                                                                                                                                                       ofltusera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    objectiv                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        making                                                                 groups                                                                                                                            econcilingr                                                                                       wil                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                    llya                                                                                                                     veloped                                                                                                                                                                                               be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ofltusera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             prineth

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               equ                                         ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             confli                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ipationc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      treatedd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-ec                                                                                                                                                                  as                                                                    to                                                                                                               cision-ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       seekyle                                                                                                                      with                                                                                                          an
    requ                                                                               iciprtap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ic                                                                                                                                                                                              as                                                                                                                                                                        cision-ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ipationc                                                                       seekyle                                                                                                                                                                                                  icip                                                                       skillso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rtiap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rtiap                                                                         tivca                                                                                                                                               eatedtr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tivca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  part                                                                          erg                                                                                   management                                                                                              ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ateipc                                                                rise                                                                                                                    from                                                                          implementing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          seen

        where                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ateipc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sedaby                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               principles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lict                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     promote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          keeping                                                                                                         be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conflict                                                                                                          from                                                          implementing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for
             tsci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                         undl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                         to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                  nda                                                                                                                                strateg                                                                                                                                                                      will                                                                        the                                                                                                                         es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               wil                                                                                          conf                                                                                           rticipap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tos                            arise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          seen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          toyt                                                           veigyam                                                                                                                 clusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 elindi                                                                                                                                   itiesvi                                                                                                                   ps

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      socio-econom                                 s                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 may
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               gu                                                                                                                                        act                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eden
                 confl                                                                         stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 clusion                                                                                                                                                                                                         entm             als                                                                         elindi                                                                       itiesvi                                                                    withg                                                                                                                      inciplrp                                                                       tersne                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   need                                                                                                                                                                     aci                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                      te                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     toyt                                                                                                                                                                             ex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to                                                                                                                                                                                                                      external            quiredere                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   give                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                                                               groure

                        lia                                                                                                     als                                                                                                                        s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                     end                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        go                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              cap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     aci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gu                                                                            act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                  ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  gementa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     keepin                                                                                                                                                                                                     plem                                                                                            of                                                                                         stakeholder                                  s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of                                                          orstcafla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             unions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  promote                                                                                                                                                                                               cap                                                            may                                                                                                                                                                          community                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ingy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               develop                                                                                          and                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                need
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                                                                          erl                                                                          im                man                                                                                            wher                                                                             in
                           conci                                                                            Support                offici                                                                                                                      conflil                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                easm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             easm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      und                                                                                                                                                                     network                                                                                                                                   conflil                                                                                                                                                                                    Contending                      conservation                                                                                                                                 Lack                                                               cultur                                                                                                             Perception                                                                             between                                                                                                                                                            Policies                                      conflict                                                                                     Projects                                                                                                             stakehold            approach                                                                                Trade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ing
                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Need                        conservation                                                                                                                                                          Lack                                                         factors                                                                                                     Perception                                                             between                                                                                                                                  SMME       conservation                                                                      Policies                                                                       Projects                                                                   groups                                                                   SMMEs                                                  the                                                                      Project            conflict                                                                        A               conflicts                                                                      Support                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                   Mitigat                                                                               ·                                                                                                ·                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                            ·                                                                                                    ·                                   Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mitigat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        y,ic                                                                     ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y,ic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       polt                                                                                                                                                                                                   t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                socio-t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              socio-t                                                                     activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ion                                                                                                                                                                                                               polt                                                                                                            tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ojecrP                                                                     onit                                                                                                                     ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ojecrP                                                                                                               pment                                                                                                                               ucat                                                                                                       ties                                                                                                                                         information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ojecrP                                                                         pment                                                                                                                                             ucat                                        ties                                                                                                                                                                   ojecrP                                                                                                            onit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ed                                                                                                         ivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in                                                                            veloed                                                                                                                                           ed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         veloed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ivi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             acts                         localized

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ants                                                                                                                                                                                                ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         acts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ents                                                                                                                                                                                                               ants                                                                                                          gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              es                                                           ents                                                                                                                                            of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           iviti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Particip                                                                   strateg                                                                                                                  Particip                                    resource                                                                                                  act                                                                              Particip                                                                                                            economic                                                                   act                                                       Recipi                                                                                                    awarenes                            Source                                                                                                      knowledge

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Particip                                                                      economic                                                                                                                                           Recipi                                     awarenes                                                                                                                                                                Particip                                                                                                          strateg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                             ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rtunities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lationu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                                                                    inter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               with

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   oppo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                menty                                                                                                                                                                              ent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                neuriale                                                                                                                                                                                                 cum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          union                                                                                                                           se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            acl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rkplaceo                                                                                                                                                                                workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                livelihood                                                                                                            of                                                             Emplo                                                                                                 opportunities                                                              Alignm                                                                                                                        trade                                                                  environmental                                         polici

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Livelihood                                                                                                                                       Entrepr                    opportunities                                                                                                                                                               Capita                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·                                                                                                                                                                                 ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                                                                                                                                     ·

                                                                                                                                         t                                                            ess                                                                                                                          h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kai                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e                                                                                    edy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                int                                                                                                                                      as

                                                                                                                                          pac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               prt
                                with                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                suc
                                                                                                                                             iml                                                         busin
                                                                                                                                                                                    companies                                         micro-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ntssa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       thos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      as                                                                                 emplo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           bas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        such

                                                                                                                                                cai                                                                      ions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             trepreneurs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rgetedta                                                                                                                                         fool
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ciatos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 promotion              chus,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        chus,                                                                                 ers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         esi                                                                 sr                                                                                                                            sse                                                                          la                                                                                                                                                                           ss                                   ce                                                                                                      cai                                                                                                        Union
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           natur
                                    Operations                                                                      significant                    ecolog Professional  consultants          advising         Organized            as                                                                                                  (SMMEs),s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 esi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              work                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          redu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Conservation                                                                                                       agenc                                                                 Fa                                                                                                                          Busine                                                                           on                                           resources                                                                                                                  Busine                                   to                                                                                                   ecolog                                                                                                       Trade                federations,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               medium                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          all                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Khula
                                              ·                                                                                                                       ·                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Unions

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Small,                                                                                     rprisetene                                                                                                                                                                                             Individual                                                                                                                                 Sm                                                           organizations                                                                                                                                                 SMME                  agenc                         and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Trade                                                                             organizing                                                                                                                     by

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          yr
                                                                                    tion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    al                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lictf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                              ate
                                                                                        ipacit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ili                                                                                           cialsi
                                                                                                                                                                                     to                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     with                                                                                                              lal                                                                         ipato
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          urt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     holderek                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                               par                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          cul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             con                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       groupsre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            off
                                                                                              par                                                                                      on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    conc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    with
ectj                                                                                             derl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                biodiversity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      deal                                                                                                                                                                                              thefo                                                                                                                                                                                                                   makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cio-os                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  stalal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ing                                                                                                                       of                                                               approachy                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ipacit                                                                                              to                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    par
    pro                                                                                                                                                                                  drawn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              drawn                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           or                                                                                                                                                                                                             antagonisms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               stakehold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  deal                                                                                                                                                                                             ator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    onnw
       the
          in                                                                                         akehost                                                                                  be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ives                                                                                               be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   up                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ojectrP                                                                          derl                                                                                                                                                                                          makers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          herto                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dra
                                                                                                            in                                                                                  will                                                                                           decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                             thos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ures                                                                                                                                                                                                ect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 will                                                                                                                decision-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fore                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sety                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       to                                                          the

                                                                                                              entm                                                                                  listsaic                                                                                            tod                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       obj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in                                                                                                                                                                         be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tod                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lsilks,se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             thos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ourc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           eedsnethteem                                                                iciprtapeth                                                                        llya                                                                                                                                    akehost
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                         will                                                                                          decision-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to
            rticipationap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   goals,
                                                                                                                  veloped                                                                                   spe                                                                                            provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              easmtuotesl                                                                                          eedsnethteem


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ess                                                                                  esl                                                                                         listsaic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                                                     res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           equ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and                                                                        of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             es
                                                                                                                                                                                                               nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      addr                                                                                 cip                                                                                              spe                                                                                                                 provide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of                                                                                                                                                                                                              ocesses                                                                                                                                                                                               easuresmtuo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ess                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              entm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       listsaic
                         for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               wil                                                                                                             to                                                                                                                                                                                   nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  goals,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  onomic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      lack                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           setl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         treated                                                 participation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      addr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               spe                                                                                             provi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               objectiv

                            ciplesin                                                                                     skillso                                                                                                                                                                                    will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            groups                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  es
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 manageme                            edir                                                               ation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ipationc                                                                                                       seekyle                                                                           prineth                                                                                                                                                                                                                    will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wil                                                                                                                      to                                                                                                                                                     and                                                           for                                                                      veloped
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onomic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     making                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and
                                    pr                                                                                          erg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     socio-ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with                                                                                        manageme                                             edir                                                                   ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    incipl                                                                     skillso                                                                                                                                                                                          will

                                      ngi                                                                                          undl                                                                                  lict                            requ

                                                                                                                                       wil                                                                                   conf                                                                                            iciprtap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rtiap                                                                                                         tivca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ofltusera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lict                                             requ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  socio-ec                                                                                                                                                                                                                   as                                                                                                                                                                                                              cision-ed                                                                                                                                                                                                ipationc                                                                                                                seekyle                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pr                                                                          erg                                                                                   management                                                                                              ation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                promote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  will                                                                                                                                                                                 conf                                                                                                                 iciprtap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rceivedepeb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             where                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es                                                                                                                                                                                          keeping                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rtiap                                                                                                                  tivca                                                                  principles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                                                                            where                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conflict                                                                                                                                                                                  from                                          implementing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                           ngiyl                                                                        undl                                                                                         lict

                                         underly                                                                                          tersne               gementa                                                                                            tsci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tos                                    arise                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ateipc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                elindi                                                                                                       itiesvi                                                                               ps                                                                                                                                               tsci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        promote                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       will                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       wil                                                                                          conf                                                                                           rticipap

                                                the                                                                                                                   man                                                        external                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        need
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          need                                     may                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      gu                                                                                                            act                                                                                                                                                                           external                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           arise
                                                                                                                                                plem                                                                                     of                           confl                                                          stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of                                            confl                                                              stakeholder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rise                                                                                                                                                                                clusion                                                                                                                                                                                                       elindi                                                                                                                itiesvi                                                                    withg                                                                         ups                                                              the                                                                       tersne
                                                   with                                                                                             im                   lict                                                                                              te                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and                                                                           groure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             toyt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             te                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ex                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             external            quiredere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                give                                                                                                                                                                                     of                                                                                                  ures:                                                                                                  gu                                                                                                                     act                                                                                                                                                  gro                                                              with                                                                                        gementa
                                                                                                                                                                             conf                                                                                            lia                                                                           als       s:tc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lia                                                                                                   als                                                   s:tc                                                                                                                                                                   need                                                    may
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of                                                                                         stakeholder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            cap                          may                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  community                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            plem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              and                                                                                                                     and                                                                   keepin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                      im                man                                                                                            wher                                                                             in
                                                       keeping                                                                                        Project                    and                                                              A                             conci                                                             Support     offici     conflil                                                                                                                                                                              Contending                              conservation                                      easm                                                                                                                                                               Policies                 conflict                                                                              Projects                                                                         stakehold       approach                                                                                A                                              conci                                                                 Support                         offici                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            easm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                conflil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            keeping                                                                                                                                                                    network
                                                                                                                                                             ·                                                                                     ·                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                              ·                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                          ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Contending                                             conservation                                                                                                                                                           Lack                       factors                                                                                                                                                                             Perception                                             between                                                                                                                                                Policies                                                                                                                Projects                                                                   groups                                                                 Community                                                                in                                                                      Project            conflict                                                                        A               conflicts                                                                      Support

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mitigat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Potentia                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                   Mitigat                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                            ·                                                                                                    ·  ·

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 y,ic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             polt                                            tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y,ic                                                    ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ojecrP                                                    pment                                                                                                                                                                                                  ojecrP                                            onit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             polt                                                    tivi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ac                                                                                                                                               sourceert                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           socio-t                                          activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ion                                                                                                                                                       knowledg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                       veloed                                                                                                                                                                                                  in

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ants                                                                                                                                                                              es                                                                             ants                                          gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ojecrP                                                    onit                                                                                                                                                    ojecrP                                                itiesvi                                                                                                                                                                   ojecrP                                              pment                                                                                                                                            ucat                                             ties
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ed                                               ivi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ants                                                  gulaer,y                                                                                                                                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nte                                                                                                                                                                                                                      veloed                                                                                                                                            of                                                acts                                                                                                   localized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ants                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ants                                                                                                                                                                                                 ents                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Particip                                                 economic                                                                                                                    act                                                                         Particip                                          strateg

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Particip                                                  strateg                                                                                                                                                 Particip                                               nagemam                                                                                                                                                                  Particip                                           economic                                                                                                                                          Recipi                                          awarenes                                                                                                      Source  information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                             ·



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ough                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ces                                                               omote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            interests                                                                                                                 thr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                our                                                                 pr


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Economic                                                       development                                                                                               opportunities                                                                        Livelihood                                    opportunities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             unitym                                                                                                                                                                     meteb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              res
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ectojrP                                                                                                                                                                tos                                                             could
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tives

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Com                                              development                                                                                                              could                                                                            the                                                                                                                                                                Acces                                                             Project                                                                                                    environmental                                                                    objec

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                   ·


                                                              and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             South                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GROUPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sre
                                                                 Nactu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mic                                                   nizations,a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         org                                                                                                                                                                        nkaB                                                                                                                                                                                            mic                     Labourd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nizations,a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ationscios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an                                                                                                                                                                                Busine                                                                          Forum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pe                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technologe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as                                                                                                                                                             eadll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Org
                                                                      Cosatu, Fedusa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       econo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   organisations                                                                              yera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Econo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           as                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Canr                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tiona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as                                                                                                                                                       Civic                                                                             Ratep                                                                                                                                                              Tradi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Umbrella                                                    development                                                                                                      chus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sgro,                        ste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Development                                                           Africa                                                                                                                        National                 Development                                                                   Council                                                                               We                         We                                                                    Opportunities                                Lanok                                                                                  Western         Forum       COMMUNITY Community s ·                                                                        chu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                                  ·

                                                                                                                n                                                                                                                                                 al
                                                                                                                 tioa                                                                                                                                               urt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            yr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       cul                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ipato                                                                             tion

                                                                                                                     conserv                                                                                                                                              cio-os                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with                                                                                               lal                                                                        tic                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                         par                                                                           ipacit                                                                                       to

                                                                                                                            rsitye                                                                                                                                              or                                                                                                                                                          antagonisms                                                                                                                                                                                                         ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              par                                                                                      on


                                                                                                                                  odivib                                                                                                                                          lsilks,se                                                                                                                                                            up                                                                                                                                                                                                          deal                                                                                                                                                                         thefo                                                                               derl                                                                                                                                                                                    makers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sety                                                                                                                                                                                                          for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  drawn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ents                                                                                                                                                  aris

                                                                                                                                        for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ma                                                                                                                                                                                                           ures                                                                                                                                                                           ect                                                                            akehost                                                                                  be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             em                                                                                                                                                    cts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ourc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   decision-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tod                                                                                                                                                                    agretc                                                                                                                                                 confli
                                                                                                                                           those                                                                                                                                                  of                                                                                                                                                           ocesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and

                                                                                                                                                and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pr

                                                                                                                                                   ls,                                                                                                                                              lack                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      easmtuotesl                                                                           eedsnethteem                                                                            obj                                                                                in                                                                                  will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ess                                                                                                                                                           entm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  esl                                                                                                                                                                  listsaic

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      addr                                                                           cip                                                                             veloped                                                                                   spe                                                                                            provide                                                                                                                                                                   projeot                                                                                                                                                with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ng

                                                                                                                                                      goa

                                                                                                                                                         mico                                                                                                                                           ofltusera                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        making                                                       groups                                                                                                                                              wil                                                                                              to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        prineth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                onita                                                                                                                                                    de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       will                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               for

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 as
                                                                                                                                                             econ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             cision-ed                                                                                                                                                                                                     ipationc                                                                                        seekyle                                                                                                                                                         skillso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 rprete

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ateipc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           manageme                                                                                               ation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tivca                                                                       with                                                                                erg                                                                                                                  edir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lict
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           implementing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     requ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          intni

                                                                                                                                                                 socio-                                                                                                                                                                                   conflict                                                                                                                     from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           undl                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ce

                                                                                                                                                                       in                                                                                                                                                rtiap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     easme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                   nda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              will                                                                       keeping                                                                                wil                                                                                   conf                                                                                            iciprtap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            es                                                                                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                    where                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            eren
                                                                                                                                                                         ste                                                                                                                                                  toyt                                  rise                                                                                                                   clusion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ex                                                                                                                                                                                                          elindi                                                                                        itiesvi                                                                         ps                                                                               tersne               gementa                                                                                            tsci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            diff                                                                                                                                             includ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                                                                                            inter                                                                                                                                                 aci                                   give                                                                                                                        of                                                                                                                                                                                                              gu                                                                                             act                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         man                                                        external

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          community                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                plem                                                                                     of                           confl                                                          stakeholder
             s:tc                                                                                                                                                                            e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tsne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cap                                    may                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and                                                                                             and                                                                     groure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       im                   lict                                                                                              te                                                                   in                                                                                                                                                                      cene

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              network                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          adher                                                                                                                                                 agr
                 conflil                                                                                                                                                         Contending   arisyam                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ures:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ures:                                                                                          eem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         easm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   conf                                                                                            lia                                                                           als                                  s:tc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lack                                 factors                                                                                                                Perception                                                   between                                                                                                                                               Policies                     conflict                                                           Projects                                                                   stakehold approach                                                                   Project                    and                                                              A                             conci                                                             Support     offici                                                                                                                                                                                                                 easm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       conflil                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ing
                                                                                                                                                                                           ·                                                                                                                                                  ·                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                ·                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                              ·                                                                                     ·                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                         Lack                                                                                                                                              ojectrP

                        Potentia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mitigat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Potentia                                                                                                                    ·                                                    Mitigat                                                                                         ·

                                       y,ic                                        ties
                                           polt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                       tivi
                                                                                           ac                                                                                                                 t                                                                                                                                                                                                 socio-t                                                                                                                                                                                                               ion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           79
                                               ojecrP                                        onit                                                                                                              ojecrP                                                                                                                                                                                                  ojecrP                                                                                     pment                                                                                                                  ucat                                                                                      ties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tinga

                                                     in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ed                                                                                        ivi

                                                       ants                                      gulaer,y                                                                                                            in                                                                                                                                                                                                      in                                                                                                                                                                                                                of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s                                                                                                             evalu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ants                     management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             veloed                                                                                                                                                                                                             acts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                es                                                                             ants                                                                                                                                                       es                                                     ents                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fund                                                                                                              and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     iviti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of

                                                           Particip                                      strateg                                                                                                           Particip                       resource                                                                                     act                                                                         Particip                                                                                  economic                                                            act                                                 Recipi                                                                                   awarenes

                                                                   ·                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                       ·                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Provider                                                                                                       Monitoring                                    implementation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                ·



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lopmente                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s

                                                                     tability                                                                                                                        tos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                   dev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iversity                                                                                                                          of

                                Public                                       accoun                                                                                                                     Acces                        information                                                                                                                                      Biodiversity  conservation                                                                                                                                                          Socio-economic                               development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          biod                                     tives                                                                              use

                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                      ·                                                                                                                                                                                    ·                                                                                                                                                                                     ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Promotion                             sustainable                                                                                                       and                                       objec                                                                            Wise

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ·                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    as:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       such


Public                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Funders,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GEF

      General                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DONORS Donor ·

Participation plan

The challenge of participation at bioregional scale: A conservation program at bioregional
scale is faced with significant challenges regarding participation. The stakeholder group is
vast, dispersed across a wide area and characterized by diversity in terms of language,
culture, history, and relationship to the land and sea. The population displays significant
socio-economic and educational disparities, as well as disparities in skills and access to
resources. Most of the population is concentrated in two major metropolitan areas (Cape
Town and Port Elizabeth), but there is a significant rural population often characterized by
dire poverty. Many well-organized groups exist, including strong NGO, private sector and
trade union organizations, but community-based organizations have withered significantly in
the last decade. While government agencies and large organizations with a broad base in the
bioregion can participate in conservation programs taking place at bioregional scale, it is
difficult for local stakeholder groups to do so, being more suited to participating in local
projects. To prevent local groups being marginalized from the broad-scale policy and strategy
aspects of the project, the Project will undertake a suite of overall and local awareness-
raising, communication and participation activities and will monitor impacts.

A new democratic dispensation: The Bill of Rights in the South African Constitution (1996)
provides all citizens with the right to an environment that is not harmful to their health or
well-being, and to have the environment protected for the benefit of present and future
generations, through reasonable legislative and other measures. New constitutional and
legislative provisions require public consultation and transparency in government decision-
making, and present new opportunities for participation in environmental decision-making.
The democratic culture engendered in political struggle and the democratisation process has
created an expectation and a desire on the part of citizens to be involved meaningfully in
decision-making on all issues including the environment. There is nevertheless a need to
prevent marginalisation of disadvantaged groups such as the poor, rural communities and
women and ensure equity of access and benefit sharing at project level. This can be achieved
through well-designed participation plans and targeted environmental education at project
level, to enhance the ability of such groups to participate effectively, and to encourage
ownership of and commitment to implementation.

Increased awareness and enthusiasm: In spite of limited awareness, knowledge and
understanding of biodiversity in the CFR, communities display increasing levels of interest in
environmental issues, demonstrate enthusiastic responses to awareness-raising activities in
local conservation projects, and display significant levels of indigenous knowledge. A recent
participation exercise undertaken in the neighbouring Succulent Karoo Biome with similar
socio-economic conditions revealed enormous potential for local leadership and action
partnerships in conservation projects. However, there is a need to develop stakeholder
understanding of how to engage effectively with such projects.

Participatory mechanisms

Each of the Project components has associated participation mechanisms which are to be
adopted in the implementation of the Project. These mechanisms are set out in the section
following the table.




                                              80

          Component                                               Participation activities
1. Institutional strengthening  Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
                                Participation activities under this heading include the facilitation of a consensus building
                                process for the resolution of legal mandates and lead institutional roles in the conservation
                                management of the CFR
                                Institution development
                                Participation activities under this heading include reviewing the composition and function
                                of the C.A.P.E. Co-ordination and C.A.P.E. Implementing Committees.

                                Consultative processes
                                Participation activities under this heading include supporting participation in Project
                                activities
2. Conservation education       Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
                                Participation activities under this heading include the building of partnerships between
                                education service providers
                                Institution development
                                Participation activities under this heading include the establishment of a formal network of
                                biodiversity education service providers; creating the capacity to provide stakeholder
                                participation and conflict management support.

                                Capacity building
                                Participation activities under this heading includes targeting the skills of biodiversity
                                education service providers; developing the skills of all stakeholders in stakeholder
                                participation and conflict management
3. Establishing the foundations Policy, strategy, regulation and plan formulation
  of the biodiversity economy   Participation activities under this heading include those associated with designing and
                                testing market based mechanisms including tax breaks, transferable development rights,
                                payment for ecological services, encouraging community eco-enterprise development
                                around conservation objectives, ; development of a Biodiversity Charter and developing a
                                certification system for responsible business. .

                                Consultative processes
                                Participation activities under this heading include those associated with the process of
                                identifying and promoting innovative techniques for the exploitation of marine and coastal
                                resources and integrating biodiversity concerns into national certification schemes.
                                Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
                                Participation activities under this heading are directed at the process of developing
                                community-public-private partnership arrangements to support emerging community eco-
                                enterprises through provision of knowledge or other resources; and developing a code of
                                practice governing procurement arrangements for conservation compatible industries and
                                the public sector to support the development of viable eco-enterprises
                                Institution development
                                Participation activities under this heading focus on inter-institutional co-operation in the
                                form of seeking increased co-operation and integration of the dispersed planning and
                                management activities associated with the marine and coastal environment.


                                Integrated development
                                Participation activities under this heading focuses on integrated activities associated with
                                communities where co-management arrangements are put in place. Participatory
                                approaches will be adopted to identifying capacity building needs, implementing training,
                                instituting processes of project development, developing infrastructure, and establishing
                                economic development opportunities. In addition there will be participation in pilot and
                                demonstration projects to promote responsible tourism, processes to assist stakeholders in
                                sustainable use of natural resources; and processes to ensure equity in access to benefits.
                                Integrated business development
                                Participation activities under this heading include the development of SMMEs in the field
                                of the consumptive and non-consumptive use of natural resources; and the development of
                                secondary community eco-enterprises around traditional businesses.
4. Program co-ordination,       Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
  management and monitoring     Participation activities under this heading include processes associated with negotiating
                                agreements with various agencies on participation in and alignment with the Project, on the
                                collection and reporting of monitoring and evaluation data, and on implementing the
                                outcomes of review processes.
                                Capacity building
                                Participation activities under this heading includes the provision of training to the C.A.P.E.
                                project managers



                                                         81

                                Consultative processes
                                Participation activities under this heading include the participatory undertaking of
                                monitoring and evaluation exercises, as well as strategic review processes.
5. Unleashing the potential of  Policy, strategy, regulation and plan formulation
  protected areas               Participatory activities under this heading include: Overarching plans for the CFR,
                                including the process to formulate policy and a strategic management framework for the
                                Protected Area network as a whole; the formulation and development of tools and
                                mechanisms for securing financial support; the development of an overarching financial
                                sustainability plan for the protected areas network; local area plans, including the
                                development of systematic and strategic conservation plans with conservation targets; and
                                the development of individual Marine Protected Area management plans.
                                Consultative processes
                                Participation activities under this heading include processes of consultation and dialogue
                                with stakeholders at the local and CFR levels and includes the following: expanding
                                protected areas through using agency staff in outreach activities with stakeholders;
                                stakeholder involvement in processes to secure the priority status of three river systems
                                and three estuaries; and the process for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of
                                Marine Protected Areas.
                                Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
                                Participation activities under this heading include processes to expand protected areas
                                through the use of fiscal and non-fiscal incentive programs; and activities to co-ordinate
                                the work of various agencies with respect to biodiversity and resource use.
                                Institution development
                                Participation activities under this heading relate to processes associated with the
                                establishment of a range of structures, including: the establishment of appropriate CFR-
                                wide institutional arrangements; establishing a conservation training network; and a range
                                of working groups related to managing the expansion of the protected area network, as
                                well as the consolidation of the protected status of three estuaries and three river systems.
                                Capacity building
                                Participation activities under this heading relate to the content to be incorporated into a
                                range of capacity building activities, which include building focused project management
                                teams for the development of the protected area network; providing short-term start up
                                support to assist the initiation of new protected areas; strengthening conservation
                                management in the Eastern Cape, building the capacity of law enforcement personnel, and
                                the rolling out of an education and awareness program for Marine Protected Areas.

6. Identifying and securing     Policy, strategy, regulation and plan formulation
  biodiversity in key sites     Participation activities under this heading include policy and planning processes which will
                                call on the participation of stakeholders at the CFR-wide and local levels. The CFR-wide
                                activities include processes to lobby for legislative change, and to develop socio-economic
                                instruments for application in localized planning and development processes. Local level
                                planning activities in priority areas will include stakeholder participation in developing
                                conservation plans for priority municipal districts; the development of action plans and
                                guidelines; and, the roll out of a pilot planning project to test land management tools and
                                protocols.
                                Consultative processes
                                Participation activities under this heading include activities that will require the facilitation
                                and mediation of stakeholder participation in: processes of lobbying for, and negotiating,
                                supportive policy and legislation, participation in municipal development forums and the
                                mediation of land-use conflicts.
                                Partnerships/Negotiated agreements
                                Participation activities under this heading includes the forging of partnerships with the
                                Working for Water program regarding the application of incentives and co-operative
                                management arrangements; and negotiated and sustained relationships with farmers.
                                Institution development
                                Participation activities under this heading include the formulation and implementation of a
                                range of working groups and forums. They include institutional co-ordination mechanisms
                                in the form of a provincial incentives working group; liaison structures with the
                                agricultural sector in the form of forums involving farmers; and, research co-ordination in
                                the form of the Fynbos Forum and other ad hoc forums.
                                Capacity building
                                Participation activities under this heading include training in participation and conflict
                                management skills for decision-makers and officials involved in land-use decision-making
                                and building skills in partnership creation.
7. Integrating biodiversity     Policy, strategy, regulation and plan formulation
  concerns into watershed       Participation activities under this heading include participatory processes associated with
  management                    the development of an overarching plan for 2 estuaries




                                                         82

Consultative processes
Participation activities under this heading include overarching consultative processes for
the development of an invasive alien species strategy; and, processes for the formulation of
national policy, legislation, guidelines and protocols for ballast water management


Institution development
Participation activities under this heading include the establishment and management of a
set of working groups to: guide the estuary planning process at the provincial level; to
bring institutions together to align the C.A.P.E. objectives with the five CFR catchment
management agencies; and, a multi-institutional reference group on invasive alien species.
Capacity building
Participation activities under this heading are aimed at incorporating content on
stakeholder management in the capacity building activities associated with the
implementation of estuary plans.




                          83

Annex 7:              Programmatic framework for GEF supported biodiversity conservation
                               activities in the Cape Floristic Region [South Africa]

Purpose of the Note

The purpose of this note is to explain the rationale behind GEF investment in the CFR
including the linkages and complementarity between the various interventions. The note has
been prepared by the World Bank and UNDP, through which GEF support is being rendered.

National Programmatic framework

The CFR harbors exceptional biodiversity, exemplified by high species richness, habitat
diversity and gamma diversity, or turnover across the ecological landscape. This vital
heritage faces accelerating anthropogenic pressures, spurring leading scientists to list the
region as one of the world's `hottest' biodiversity hotspots. Given the great ecological
heterogeneity, social differences, economic stratification, and variation in institutional and
individual capacities across the CFR's landscape, it is evident that a number of different
conservation approaches are needed to satisfy conservation objectives9.

The GoSA is moving to address the afore-mentioned challenges, through a comprehensive
and long-term programmatic framework entitled Cape Action for People and the
Environment (C.A.P.E.). The Program aims at implementing the Cape Action Plan for the
Environment (CAPE 2000 Strategy), completed in September 2000, with financial support
from the GEF10, following broad-based stakeholder involvement. The CAPE 2000 Strategy
provides a long-term vision for biodiversity conservation in the CFR, identifies conservation
priorities based on an assessment of the threats to biodiversity, and articulates an action plan
and investment program to address these priorities. All key government conservation and
development agencies and major NGOs and private sector associations in the CFR have
aligned themselves to the CAPE 2000 vision, and to the accompanying strategy.

Over its 20 year time-scale, C.A.P.E. aims at expanding the area under effective conservation
management from 10,800 km2 (12% of the CFR) to 30,800 km2 (34,2% of the CFR),
assuming that a further 13,000 km2 (14,44% of CFR) will persist because of its inaccessibility
for any development. Conservation activities would be backstopped by a strong policy
framework, capacitated institutions, new financial mechanisms and other instruments needed
to assure the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of management. An overriding objective is
to create the foundations for a `biodiversity economy': linking the environmental benefits of
the CFR directly to economic growth and livelihood creation. This will be achieved through
nurturing the development of conservation compatible industries, such as nature-based
tourism, and assuring the sustainable utilisation of wild resources, mainstreaming
conservation objectives into the production sectors, particularly agriculture, and creating
markets for environmental services underpinning the natural resource sectors. The key
strategic design features of the C.A.P.E. Program may be summarised as follows:



9The challenge is multifold: First, there is an unmet need to align conservation objectives with those of the production
sectors, and to mainstream conservation programs into the economic and social sectors; second, there is a need to expand the
conservation estate. A multitude of sites of various sizes will need to be brought under conservation management, to ensure
that protection is extended to a biologically representative sample of biodiversity, and to restricted range species. Different
conservation models will need to be developed, geared towards addressing different socio-economic and institutional
specificities; third, new models for facilitating sustainable utilisation of biological resources are needed to mitigate threats,
develop conservation compatible livelihoods and to ensure that the benefits accruing from conservation are equitably
distributed; fourth, systemic level, institutional and individual capacities need to be developed to ensure the sustainability of
management, and fifth, there is a need to create broad-based environmental awareness in the region

10Funding was made available through the GEF/ WB Project: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation


                                                                84

Phased approach: activities are being scheduled over 20 years, providing an adequate time
budget to systematically address current and emergent threats to biodiversity and assure
sustainable management. Interventions would be phased, with three distinct stages
anticipated:

    ·   Phase 1 (6 years), will be characterized by measures being tested and taken to arrest
        biodiversity losses in the CFR. GEF investment will support the establishment of the
        overall C.A.P.E. as a program and the implementation of the GEF-supported program
        components. The GEF support will focus on establishing a systemic and institutional
        enabling environment for conservation and developing know-how to address key
        threats and root causes of biodiversity losses. (See Annex 7, Threats Analysis).
        Lessons learnt from other GEF support to South Africa will be replicated whilst also
        piloting and demonstrating new approaches to conservation. This phase will result in
        substantial gains being made in expanding the area under conservation (4,800 km2).
        Importantly it will lay the basis for what is termed "the biodiversity economy". The
        term is used to describe a region and an economy which grows with minimal negative
        impact on natural systems, rehabilitates the regions ecological capital and supports
        sustainable economic growth and employment opportunities presented by the regions
        unique biodiversity and environment.

    ·   Phase 2 (6 years), will be characterized by a significant expansion of capacity to
        conserve the CFR with most key areas secured under conservation management.
        Conservation interventions will bring an additional 7,600 square kilometres (8,4%)
        into the conservation estate, including protected areas, buffers and other support
        zones, where conservation objectives have been mainstreamed into development.
        Institutional and individual capacity will be expanded through local government and
        community conservation programs.

    ·   In Phase 3 (8 years), the mature phase of the program, markets are expected to play a
        key role in conserving and even restoring the ecological capital of the CFR. The goals
        of the national program should be met with a further 7,600 square kilometres (8,4%)
        inducted into the conservation estate. Institutional arrangements for ecoregional scale
        management would be strengthened, programmatic links strengthened between
        biodiversity, climate change, and water management initiatives. The root causes and
        key threats to the conservation of the CFR should have been significantly eliminated
        through a barrier removal approach. This phase will be funded domestically, but with
        some technical support still provided by the World Bank and the UNDP.

Mainstreaming: .C.A.P.E will focus on mainstreaming biodiversity conservation objectives
into all the productive sectors, the bioregional economy and key government programs.

Public-private partnership: strong emphasis is placed on deepening the role of the private
sector in conservation and related activities. Differentiated strategies will be pursued for
different sectors (tourism, fisheries and agriculture) and large, medium and small
enterprises. The key program challenge is to leverage substantial private sector investment
into rehabilitating the ecological capital of the CFR, thereby also supporting economic
growth and employment. Since much of thee land to be conserved is owned privately,
models will need to be developed for inducting it into the conservation estate. Even where
state land is to be included, the maintenance costs and management requirements are likely
to exceed state resources. Therefore, a range of public- private sector models will need to
be developed and tested in order conserve the CFR. (See Annex 6, Institutions associated
with the Project). The creation of large marine reserves will require a similar approach.


                                               85

International partnerships: The GoSA is seeking partnerships with a range of multi-lateral
and bilateral agencies and the private sector to create a diverse base of experience, technical
know-how and networks that may be drawn upon to strengthen actions. The partnership
currently primarily includes the World Bank, UNDP and the CEPF to attain Program
targets. Central program co-ordination will therefore remain lean, with execution primarily
being the responsibility of technically competent and resourced executing agencies.

Program co-ordination: The program will be characterized by strategic program co-
ordination, provided by the National Botanical Institute to support executing agencies to
attain project targets.

Financial management and procurement: The financial management capacity of the key
executing agencies is regarded as sound, but a proper evaluation will be undertaken prior to
Appraisal, and if need be, a financial management strengthening plan will be developed.
The NBI's financial management systems will be carefully evaluated since they will be the
recipient of the full size grant. Similarly, procurement capacities will be evaluated and
strengthened, if need be, for the NBI.

Previous GEF support

In 1998, the GEF provided US$12.3 million in funding through the World Bank for the
Project: Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project (CPBCP). The Project provided
funding to strengthen management of and extend the globally significant Cape Peninsula
National Park (CPNP), to part-capitalize an environmental Trust Fund, the Table Mountain
Fund (TMF), and to prepare the CAPE 2000 Strategy. These respective interventions have all
successfully attained their expected outcomes:
·   Conservation operations in the CPNP have been successfully strengthened. The Park has
    been expanded to encompass previously unprotected and vulnerable ecological units. An
    intensive effort to control alien invasive plants has greatly reduced threats from
    infestation. Park planning systems have been systematically integrated into town planning
    frameworks and a locally relevant conservation education program has been developed.
    Recurrent management costs are now being partially recovered through institution of user
    fees. The systems developed provide tested and replicable models for other PAs in
    montane environments.
·   The TMF was initially established with domestic contributions of US $2 million to
    support the conservation of Table Mountain. The CPBCP provided funding (US $5
    million) to broaden the mandate of the fund to support small-medium scale community-
    based conservation actions throughout the CFR. To date it has funded or is funding over
    40 projects. The TMF has established a reputation as a model Trust Fund, having
    developed significant project management capabilities.
·   The Cape Action Plan for the Environment has provided the framework for more
    systematically coordinating the activities of government and non-government agencies
    within the conservation arena. Further, at a site level, a fine-scale conservation mapping
    exercise was completed in the Agulhas Plain - one of the most important refugia for
    lowland Cape fynbos vegetation globally.

The Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project in essence constituted a pre-feasibility
phase and substantial investment for a broader initiative to protect the entire CFR. The
project has met key performance benchmarks. This success, attributed in large part to strong
government commitment and stakeholder support, provides a strong assurance that further
conservation measures intended to realise the CAPE 2000 vision have a high probability of

                                              86

success, both in terms of mitigating threats and engineering sustainability. These
fundamentals provide the conditions necessary for further GEF support, as part of a larger
package, to secure biodiversity conservation objectives within the CFR.

GEF support to C.A.P.E.

In 2001, the GoSA approved a medium-term GEF Project Priority Framework, identifying
strategic areas for GEF investment, needed to catalyse a broad spectrum of environmental
management endeavours of high national priority. A key objective is to expand conservation
activities to encompass whole ecological landscapes, focusing on biomes by seeking to
"integrate conservation objectives into the productive sectors, strengthen land-use planning
and monitoring functions, develop and support implementation of conservation models,
establish new institutional and operational mechanisms, and establish new conservation
partnerships bridging the public and private sectors"11. The CFR was identified as a top
priority for GEF intervention, to secure these intended outcomes.

The GEF would provide phased support for the implementation C.A.P.E, to create systemic,
institutional and individual capacities and pilot and adapt innovative conservation approaches
to create a platform for sustainable biodiversity management. GEF support is aimed at
integrating and mainstreaming biodiversity objectives in the sustainable development
framework for the area, building on the exceptional progress already made by South Africa.
The proposed interventions are consistent with GEF operational principles and satisfy all key
eligibility criteria, including country-drivenness, conformity with operational programs and
therefore with CBD guidance, incremental cost, and co-ordination with other national
development activities. By cultivating increased country ownership and commitment to
longer-term frameworks for sustainable development and biodiversity conservation, GEF
investment will improve the capacities and scope for catalyzing and sustaining action, and
assure cost-effectiveness, replication and innovation. C.A.P.E. constitutes an unparalleled
opportunity to protect an entire floral kingdom, and to test cutting edge conservation
approaches, across the productive sectors, with strong stakeholder involvement. GEF support
to the initiative would provide important lessons and best practices for other bioregional scale
conservation initiatives, particularly in Mediterranean type, dryland environments.

The design parameters for this approach reflect policy guidance supplied by the GEF
Executive Council in May 2001, following review and endorsement of the policy on
Programmatic Approaches12.

Phasing: GEF investment will be requested in two phases (of approximately six years each),
with distinct objectives, aligned to the phased approach adopted by South Africa for the
C.A.P.E Program. The proportion of co-financing to GEF funding will be progressively


11 GEF Medium-Term Project Priority Framework 2000 [Para 2.11]

12The GEF investment in C.A.P.E. through this Project is consistent with the design elements of GEF Council Paper,
GEF/C.17.Inf.11" the GEF Programmatic Approach: Current Understandings". In particular, the Project is consistent with
the following design aspects of a program framework:
(a) provision of information on the enabling environment, including critical policy environment, legal and institutional
arrangements and in-country capacity;
(b) agreed goals, objectives, milestones and indicators of outcomes/impacts for each phase of the Project, with specific
details for the phase seeking approval;
(c) development of a learning and adaptive management system, including monitoring and evaluation plans, with specific
details for the phase seeking approval;
(d) provision of a financing plan for the entire program including the envelope of request from the GEF, the main partners
and their contributions (including the country). As a minimum the details of the first phase should be clearly spelt out and
the co-financing arrangements secure.



                                                             87

increased in each phase, as biodiversity conservation objectives are successfully
mainstreamed in the development agenda, engendering long-term financial sustainability;
Activities in Phase 1 will contribute substantively to national efforts to strengthen the overall
management framework, through building necessary capacities at the systemic, institutional
and individual levels and testing conservation approaches. Activities in Phase 2 will seek to
enhance lessons learned from implementation and refine management activities across the
CFR and to consolidate and deepen conservation impacts. The strategy will allow
management systems to be progressively adapted to improve results, and accommodate
emergent best practice for different ecological/ social contexts; Interventions are being
designed with a clear GEF exit strategy in mind, to ensure sustainability; activities in Phase 3
of C.A.P.E would be nationally funded. The Project has been designed to ensure that Phase 1
activities can be concluded if need be without further GEF investment. Whilst further GEF
investment in subsequent phases will be required for full C.A.P.E. Program implementation,
Phase 1 activities will require a level of maintenance support that is well within the
anticipated capacities of the national executing agencies - thus assuring sustainability.

Performance: GEF funding for Phase 2 of C.A.P.E. will be predicated on the realization of
the trigger indicators listed in Section A2 of this document; funding will be closely tied to
institutional delivery and program performance of Phase 1 initiatives, which will be subject to
an independent evaluation. The strength of stakeholder commitments will be tested through
funding arrangements and policy/ program reform;

Strategic priorities: Interventions are aligned with new GEF Strategic Priorities, including for
strengthening the national system of protected areas, and mainstreaming biodiversity in
production landscapes.

The overall co-financing which the program is anticipated to leverage over a 20 year period
for each Program Phase is shown in the table below. The ratio of GEF support to non-GEF
support is highly favorable.13

Funding per phase excluding baseline for 20ears: $US million

Phase                     Co-funding              GEF funding including CEPF
                                                  (GEF) and Agulhas Plain                       Total

Phase 1                   $44                     $15,5                                         $59,5
Phase 2                   $55                     $10                                           $65
Phase 3                   $70                     $0                                            $70
Total                     $169                    $25,5                                         $194,5



GEF support to Phase 1 of the C.A.P.E. Project will be channeled through three
complementary interventions:14

·   Mainstreaming Biodiversity Objectives in the Cape Floristic Region [Phase I/II]
·   C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative [Phase I]
·   Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) [Phase I]




13The current baseline funding for Phase 1 over 6 years is in excess of $200 million and is not reflected in these figures.

14Of these, one is currently underway: 1] Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund.


                                                            88

A summary of these respective initiatives for Phase 1, and a description of their respective
complementarities, within the ambit of the national C.A.P.E. Program, is provided below:

C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development in the CFR
       Ecoregion

Funding:                      GEF    US$ 11 million/ Co-Financing            US$ 28.51 million
GEF IA:                       World Bank (lead) and UNDP
Executing Agency:             National Botanical Institute (NBI)
Duration:                     Six Years

Brief description: The primary objective of the Project is to mainstream biodiversity in
production systems at a bioregional scale. The initiative was approved as part of the GEF
Pipeline in 2002 when a PDF B grant of US $320,000 was made available to facilitate the
preparation stage. A funding application for GEF work program approval is being submitted
to the May 2003 GEF Council meeting. The Project is designed to establish the overall
enabling environment for conservation efforts in the CFR across national, provincial and
other jurisdictional boundaries. GEF support to the Project is intended to catalyse innovative,
cost-effective and replicable approaches to conservation in different ecosystems and social
landscapes. The GEF would provide funding for Project co-ordination and key technical
support in the areas of knowledge management, capacity building, monitoring, policy
development, detailed planning and conservation education. Collectively, these interventions
will provide a co-ordinated framework for conservation investments, ensuring effective
Project delivery and optimizing benefits. The Project will be delivered over two phases, with
different objectives. Phase 1 will create the enabling environment, and pilot innovative
conservation methods:

    ·  Develop public-private sector models for management of conservation estates
    ·  Incorporate another 4,000 square kilometres into the conservation estate on a
       sustainable basis
    ·  Supporting program management, monitoring, evaluation and communications
       functions
    ·  Building capacities by developing a knowledge-management system geared to the
       specific needs of different end users, and creating platforms for multi-stakeholder
       participation in conservation activities
    ·  Supporting broad-based conservation education in schools and vocational learning
       centres
    ·  Advancing the development of sustainable livelihoods by developing and testing new
       systems including codes of conduct and certification measures to lessen the impacts of
       business activities on biodiversity
    ·  Evaluating and piloting market-based mechanisms to complement traditional
       management instruments.
    ·  Establishing and consolidating protected areas to reach a 20-year conservation target
       for the CFR. GEF funding will support park planning and implementing management
       systems
    ·  Undertaking fine-scale conservation planning, to determine conservation priorities in
       threatened ecosystems as needed to catalyse long-term investment and build
       capacities within municipalities, in priority areas, for integrating biodiversity in land-
       use decision-making
    ·  Integrating biodiversity concerns into fire management and watershed and estuarine
       management


                                               89

Subject to the success of the various GEF interventions, The GoSA would lodge an
application for GEF support to Phase 1, under this Program (see Table 1 for activities). Key
triggers for moving from Phase 1 to Phase 2 will be:

    ·   4,000 square kilometres of the CFR brought under protected area management
    ·   Additional protected areas to include three terrestrial sites, two estuaries, two rivers
        and six formally fragmented landscapes
    ·   All new protected areas characterized by functional management systems and
        adequate financial resources
    ·   Market-based mechanisms designed and piloted

Complementarity: The Project will ensure that key interventions in the CFR are delivered on
schedule and that financial and technical resources dedicated towards conservation efforts are
efficiently managed and effectively targeted to maximize impact. The key Project
components discussed above are critical to the conservation of the CFR and are not being
undertaken through other GEF interventions or funding arrangements. The C.A.P.E. Program
has already mobilized and motivated a substantial number of partners to begin
implementation of key activities using local resources and innovation. The Project will ensure
that lessons emerging from the CPBCP and C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative are
systematically applied across the CFR planning domain. Protected Area demonstrations will
complement the models already established for montane ecosystems (CPBCP) and being
established for lowlands (under the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative), by focusing on
forests, estuarine, coastal and marine environments.

C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative

Funding:                       GEF S $3 million/ Co-Financing US $8 million
GEF IA:                        UNDP
Executing Agency:              South African National Parks
Duration:                      Five Years


Brief description: This initiative was approved as part of the GEF Pipeline in 2001, when a
PDF B grant of US$ 78,550 was made available for project preparation. A funding
application for work program approval is being submitted to the May 2003 GEF Council
meeting, concurrently with the Program entitled C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity Conservation and
Sustainable Development Project. The project will protect one of the largest extant areas of
lowland fynbos in the CFR: the Agulhas Plain. The Plain has been mapped at fine-scale, with
CPBCP funding, a process that identified priority sites for biodiversity conservation.
Activities would facilitate conservation in productive landscapes:
    ·   Operationalizing a new Protected Area representing dryland environments, Agulhas
        National Park, and outlying protected sites under contractual agreements with private
        landowners. The initiative will pilot GoSA policies aimed at establishing Contractual
        Parks on private lands, installing the institutional arrangements, planning, monitoring
        and other PA management tools, and incentives that may be applied later both in the
        CFR and nationally
    ·   Developing institutional models and capacities to facilitate multi-stakeholder and
        inter-sectoral collaboration and public-private partnerships at a local level, on a pilot
        basis. The model will be tested and adapted, for eventual replication under Phase 2 of
        C.A.P.E.
    ·   Developing knowhow, testing management arrangements for and optimizing benefits
        from the sustainable utilization of wild fynbos, as a demonstration for C.A.P.E.
    ·   Testing effective means for mainstreaming biodiversity management objectives into

                                               90

        the local tourism industry, to inform tourism development activities under C.A.P.E.;
        and
    ·   Establishing critical know-how for the restoration of degraded lands.

The Project has been designed with a time budget of five years. This will allow for best
practices to be codified in management arrangements to be spearheaded in C.A.P.E. Phase 2,
which will be developed in year six.

Complementarity: The primary objective is to develop new PA management models,
mainstreamed into the productive landscape to catalyse long-term sustainability both within
the CFR's PA network, and nationally. C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative has been
designed as a fast track project, intended to test a host of initiatives planned under the
national C.A.P.E. Program over 20 years, at a sub-regional level within a time span of 5
years. The long-term objective of the GoSA and C.A.P.E. is to decentralize conservation
management as far as possible to the sub-regional level. ABI will provide a model and toolkit
to facilitate this process. Unlike other sites, the Agulhas Plain is in a high state of readiness
for successful conservation intervention (following fine-scale planning and intensive
stakeholder engagement under the CPBCP). The site thus provides an ideal venue for testing
and adapting conservation models to be spearheaded throughout the CFR, and thus to reduce
risks and enhance cost-effectiveness of interventions. The initiative has been designed to
inform the design and implementation of C.A.P.E.. In addition, ABI will demonstrate: one, a
model for management of PAs in CFR lowlands, complementing the model for montane
ecosystems, already provided by the CPBCP; two, the efficacy of new institutional
arrangements, linking protected areas, contractual parks and surrounding productive
landscapes, and anchored by an integrated extension service; three, tested management
models for sustainable wild fynbos harvesting and tourism. Close programmatic linkages
with other GEF activities in the CFR have been developed during preparation. These will be
maintained during implementation, to facilitate the continued transfer of key lessons.

Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund for the CFR (CEPF)

Funding:                       GEF     US$ 1.5 million/ Co-Financing         US$ 4.5 million
GEF IA:                        World Bank
Executing Agency:              Conservation International

Brief description: CEPF funding for the CFR was approved in December 2001 by the CEPF
Donor Council. An Ecosystem Profile has been prepared, defining the strategic niche and
value added of CEPF activities in light of other planned interventions, funded by the GEF,
GoSA and other sources. Funding is available for the following activities:
    ·   Supporting civil society involvement in the establishment of community managed
        protected areas (such as conservancies) and management of biological corridors in the
        Cedarberg, Gouritz and Baviaanskloof areas
    ·   Promoting partnerships between communities and private enterprises for conservation
    ·   Building capacity for conservation work amongst civil society organizations in the
        region, enabling them to participate meaningfully in new conservation partnerships
        with public institutions, parastatals and other organizations

Complementarity: CEPF is funding conservation initiatives led by civil society organizations.
Investments are being carefully targeted to avoid any duplication of effort with other GEF
activities and maximize synergies with the said activities. Efforts are focused on organizing
and building capacities within civil society to implement conservation activities, taking a
`learning by doing' approach. The objective to equip communities with core capacities and
know-how that will enable them to collaborate as equal partners on larger conservation

                                                 91

initiatives, initiated through C.A.P.E. in Cedarberg, Gouritz and Baviaanskloof. The lack of
individual and institutional capacities at the community level currently handicaps effective
community involvement in larger conservation interventions. CEPF funding is intended to
provide a flexible and rapid funding mechanism to address immediate threats to biodiversity,
where prospects for success are high, and to augment long term funding windows. CEPF
provides funding for initial planning, stakeholder organization and advocacy, to create
conditions necessary for the success of larger long-term investments planned in the CFR.


Implementation and co-ordination arrangements

GEF activities will be jointly implemented by the World Bank and UNDP, expanding the
range of technical competencies, experience and technical networks available to
beneficiaries. The two agencies have closely collaborated in supporting preparation of the
various C.A.P.E. activities under the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding. The World
Bank will assume overall responsibility for managing the C.A.P.E.: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Development in the CFR Ecoregion Program including
components 3-7. The UNDP will be responsible for implementing the institutional capacity
building and conservation education components ( 1and 2 ) of this project. UNDP will serve
as the Implementing Agency for the C.A.P.E.: Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative.

This Project will broadly be implemented and co-ordinated as follows:
·   An annual work program will be developed by the C.A.P.E. Co-ordinator in co-operation
    with the key executing agents. It will contain the key deliverables/ targets, the program
    budget, and responsibilities for execution and sources of funding. The work program will
    be approved by the C.A.P.E. Implementation Committee (technical committee
    comprising of key execution agencies) and C.A.P.E. Co-ordination Committee (heads of
    executing agency).
·   A funder round table comprising of the UNDP, World Bank and all other program
    funders will be convened once a year to approve the work program.
·   Every six months the UNDP and the World Bank will undertake supervision missions for
    those components of the Project for which they are responsible for supervising. The
    recipient will be responsible for preparing six monthly progress reports and activity plans.
·   Disbursement of grant funds will be the responsibility of each Implementing Agency and
    Project and Special accounts will be opened by the recipient, for the receipt and use of
    project funds.
·   A Mid-term review will be held at which significant Project adjustments will be
    considered by the UNDP and the World Bank.
·   Annual audits will be provided by the recipient. In year five, the next application to the
    GEF is likely to be prepared for C.A.P.E. under the Biodiversity Conservation and
    Sustainable Development Project. It will be supported by an independent technical and
    financial evaluation of the success of the Project. It will design the next phase of GEF
    support with an increased role identified for the private sector.
·   UNDP/World Bank/SANParks will develop mechanisms to systematically disseminate
    information and lessons from ABI to the NBI and other executing agencies, for
    application throughout the CFR.




                                               92

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    West,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bayr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Coast                                                                                                                  nsula                                                                                                                            level


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    activities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              gelkraalaH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  oudtvill                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Walke                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ewiN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Plain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    West                                                                                                                       pe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s.AP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ootrG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ca                                                                                                                         landscape                                                                        ulhas

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Baviaanskloof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      planningre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                reserves,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      oof                                                                                                                             serve                                                                                                                                                                e,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lley,aV                                                                                                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                               a                                                                            Ag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Riversdale,                                            ands                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rout                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 reserv                                                                                              nature                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    veriR                                                                                                                                   lowl                                                                Bolan

                           NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       demonstration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Baviaanskl                               Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Garden                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     private                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sandveld                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             execution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    level                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              South-east
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         al                                                                                                                                                                        ni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   multi-stakehold
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  erg,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             andzt                                                                                                                     Biosphere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  six                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               eederB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ncy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                SITES/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             West                                                  e,                                                         Swartland/                                                                                                                                                                                                        gementa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   community
                                                                                                                                                                                                        R                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         CF                                                                                             CF                                                                   RFC:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R                                                                               Pla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Na                                                                                        lberge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rg/e                                                                                                                                                                                                           man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Region                                                                                     CF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cedarb                                                           A.                                                                                                                                                                              finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phase                                                                                                                                                     Gouri,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Park,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pperU                                                                                                                                        Reserv
                                                                                                                                                                                                           E.:P.                                                                                          E.:P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E.:P.                                                                                                                                        facilitated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Elim                                                                                                                                                                                         Conserva                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North                                                                                                                                Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Agulhas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Overb

                                                                                                                                                                                                                A.                                                                                             A.
                                      TARGETED                                                                                                                                                                    C.                                                                                             C.                                                              P.E..A.C                                                                                                                                        Sub:IBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      illw                                                                            Agulhas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   illw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A..C                                                                              ABI:                                                             CEPF:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.A.P.E.:                                                      Coast                                                                   Gouritz:                                                                                                       PFEC                                        Cedarberg                              ABI:                                                                                      C.A.P.E.:                                                                                                                                                        I:BA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E.:P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Contractual                                                                                Fynbos                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C.                                                                                Plateau,                                             Biosphere                                                             TMF:     tionalaN                                                                                                            IBA                                                                         conservation


                                              FP
                                                CE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ×                                                                                                                                          ×


                                                  IBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ×                                                                                                                                                                                                         ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ×                                                  ×                                                                                                  ×                                                                                                                      ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ×

                                                     E.
                                                       P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       93
                                                         A.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ×
                                                           C.                                                                                                                                                                                                  ×                                                   ×                                                                     ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ×                                                                                                                                                                         ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ×                                                                     ×                                                                    ×                                                                ×                                               ×                                      ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                ×

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          capacity                                                                               capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         building                                                                              manage
                                                             IES                                                                          integrated                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      technical                                                                                  erations,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  op
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     performance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 performance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                             ning                                                                                           conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         conservation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                s,m                              lopmente                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,noitaroprocni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     incorporation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            institu                                                                                               level;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   developed                                                       economy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               zo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  contractual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              plans,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pla                                                          rveysus                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               tp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         farm
                                                                ACTIVIT                                                                             reporting,                                                                     syste                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               legal                                                                                                                                                        ada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ramg                                    Systems                                                                                                                        and                                                                                                                                                                                   development,                                                              oni                                                                                                                                                                                                               into                                                                                                                                                                           legal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lands                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  reserves,                                                                                            planning,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                On

                                                                       GEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            strengthening                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                                                                                                                                                                                      communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sub-regional                                                                                                                                                  facilitat                                                                                                                                     instruments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                services,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  business                                                         ecological                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     functions,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         business
                                                                          OF
                                                                            N                                                                                                                                                           evaluation
                                                                                                                                                              rdination,                                                                                                                                                   Information                                                                                                                tegrationni                                                                                                                                                                                    materials                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         consolidation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             mmunal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        eds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         biodiversity                                                                               and                                                                                  planning,                                                          of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Co                                                                                                                                        fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            arrangements,                                                                                                                                                 develop                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mmunityoc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  and                              training,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           at                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    systems,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              agreements,

                                                                             PTIOI                                                                                      co-o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       institutional                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 to                                                                                                         supervisory                                                                                                                              and                                                                                         conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           extension
                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          integration

                                                                                                 NMEN
matrixy                                                                           DESCR                                                                                     tivitycA                                                                 monitoring                             management                                Environmental                                                  Policy                                                      Programmatic                                                                                            ordination building                                                                  mmunication,oC                                                   community,gnidliub                                                               y,c                                                               rket-ba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ma                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lands/                                                                          onali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              landowners                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               and

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Advoca                                                                  weN                                                       mainstreaming                                                                     Establishment                                                                              Fine-scale                                                  development                                                            management                                                                                                                                                                                                                Private                                                                        Institut                                             development                                                                                     assistance,                                                                                                         strengthen                                                                       for                                             contractual                                                                                          Fine-scale                                                                                   plans                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Integrated                                                                                                   management                                             planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLOCKS
                                                                                                     ENVIRO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BLOCKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ATT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TAT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HABI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HABI
       Summar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                kro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E

             1:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SMALL
                                                                                                           INSTITUTIONAL/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LARG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Manageme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              instruments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                         CYI                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Management                                                                                                                   Framew                                                                                                       education                                                                                                                                                                                                                   participation                                                                                                                                               OF               sa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eas                                                                                                                         ev                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         kom)                                                                      e                                                                                           tion                                                                                                          rylands)d(
                                                                                                                            POL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Capacities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                veleL
                                                                                                                                                                                    Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -ordinationoC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Reser                                                                                                                                                 serveeR                                                                                                                (Es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       os

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Education                                                                          society                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (drylands)                                                            (forests)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Reserv                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (forests)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Marine                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sector                                                                                                                                                             Prioritiza                                                                                                            fynb                                                                                                                              nosterveldeR
               Attachment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Market-based                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ndscapeaL

                                                                                       CATEGORY                                        .A
                                                                                                                               ENABLING                                                       Programi.A                                                                                                                                                     Information                                             Systemic                                                         Institutional                                                                                                   Conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Civil                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 andsl                                                                andsl                                                                                                                                                                  Protected                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ONSERVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                   andsl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A.ii                                                 iii.A                                                                 iv.A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A.v                                                                      Systemic                                                         Informal                                                                                A.                                                               vii.A                                                             CONSERVATION        Protected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .B               B.i                                                                                                                     Mountains                                                                   Low                                                                  Low                                                       Freshwater                                       Estuarine                               astal/oC                B.ii                                                                                                                 Contractual                                      Conservancies                                                                                          mmunityoC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Private                                                             Biosphere                                                                         C.               Sitei.C                                                                                                         Lowland                                                                               Low                                                 astaloC                                                                                                                             C.ii

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          es,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Klein,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Groot
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gouritz,                                                                                                                                                                                        estuarine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             speci                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s,n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      mrag                                                                                                     lansp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  invasive                                                                                                                                                                     eede,rB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Loure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ukamma,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ementg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,greB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Species
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ms-Bitouoo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          darberg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     testing                                                                                                  Olifants,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Doring,                                                                                           Ce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Plant

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Keurb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 in                                                                                           in

NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cape                                                                                                                  clearance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the                                                                                                        at:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and                                                                                                                        the                                                                                                                                                                   oring,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   tes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ni                                                    eth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,                                                                                           fund                                                                                                                                                         ukamma,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ale                                                                                   techniques
     SITES/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Threatenedeht                                                                                          lementationp

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Elizab                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           lifants/DO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               program                                                  Go,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               will                                                                                                                                                                        :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               field                                                                                      rimente                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fund                                                                                                    fund



           TARGETED                                                                                                                          .E.P.A.C                                                                       Agulhas:                                                  rtoP:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  exp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   will


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ABI                                                    TMF                                                                                                                     C.A.P.E.                                                                                                                                                                 P.E..A.C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       will

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fish/Tsitsikamma                                                                                   C.A.P.E.                                                                                                  management                                           Heuningness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.A.P.E.:                                                                                       TMF:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CEPF                                                                                                    TMF


                   FP
                     CE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ×


                       IBA                                                                                                                           ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ×                                   ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ×                                                                                                  ×                                                                                                                                                                                          ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ×                                                                                                                                                 ×                                                                                                                                                                                        ×

                          E.
                            P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              94
                              A.
                                C.                                                                                                                    ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ×                                                                                          ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ×                                                                                    ×                  ×  ×                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ×                                                                                         ×
                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ithw                                                                                                                                                         d                                                        to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                lan                                                                                                                                                                                        pilot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           legal
                                                                      spatia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               stock
                                                                                                                                                        capacity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               control                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cacyo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lacking,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                spatial
                                  IES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ecological                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                estuarine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               appropriate                                                                                                                                                                                 policies                                                                                                                                                                   to                                                                                                     is                                                                                                                                             activities,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      adv
                                                                            into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                for                                                                                                                                   operations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      system                                                                                                                                                       curtail                                                systems,                                                                                                                              parks,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       management
                                                                                                                                                                lations,u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CFR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   how                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  adapt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ss
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   how-                                                                                                                                         into                                                                                                                                                                                        a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   activities,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ciencies                                               t/o

                                     ACTIVIT                                                                                                                             reg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              lotingip                                                                                                                ictiond                                                          controls,                                                          national                                                                                          measures                                                                                                   kno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    effi                                              Pil                                                                                                                 building,
                                                                                planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       know                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            objectives                                                                                                                                                                   pre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             awarene                                                                                                                                       offtakes,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                demonstration,
                                            GEF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               areas                                                                                                                                                                                  thoritiesuA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    objectives
                                                                                                                                                                            land-use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and                                                                                                                                                        management                                                                                               fire                                                   regime,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   where                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   market
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         of                                                                                                                 and
                                               OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        mechanisms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      capacity                                                          management
                                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                      cipalities                                                                                                                                                                                                                         acquire                                 adedr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gni                                                                                    ram                                                                        fire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       tsc                                                                    ylands                                                                                                                                                                      contractual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            management                                                                                             ng                                                           management                                                                                                 ies,c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ublicp                                                                                                                                                                                              ation,                                     arrangements,                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        deg                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            des                                                                                    prog                                                                        e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on                                                                                                                                                                                                     spe                                                                          significant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         for

                                                                                        conservation                                                                                                                                              muni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cleari                                                               new                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               materials                                                                                           sustainable                                                                                                                                           tool                                                                                                                                           pilot                                                                                                                                    research,
                                                  PTIOI                                                                                                                             strengthen                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ties,                                  in                                                                                                                                                                                   Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            conservation                                            impa                                                                        on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     conservation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            target                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          certific
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              planning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     baselin                                                                                                                                                                                                             monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         activi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    management                                                                                                                               te/                                                            clearing                        alien                                                             adapt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  grants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   invasive

                                                       DESCR                                        Integrate                                                                                 planning,                                                  building                                     Spatial                                                                                                                                                                                  Pilot                         restoration                                                                                                  Integrate                                                                       tchmentaC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        threats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Participatory                                                                           management                                                                      Align                                           biodiversity                                    Monitoring                                                 fire           degradation                                  Install                                                               facilita                                                            alien                        novel                                                             Pilot/                                                                                                   alien                                                                                  and                                                 Systematize                                    promotional                                                                                           Determine                                              planning,                                 Co-management                                 Management   Promotion                                                          Small                                                           education,                   support                                                                                                         Planning,                                                                  assessment

                                                                                                             in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RESOURCES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VITIESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Natural
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRADATI
                                                                                                               biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                              DE                                                                                 lands)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iesc                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ased
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       biodiversity                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Spe                                                                                                                                                               Species                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Species                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ngi                           SHED                                                                                   farmd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mentega                                                                                             nagementa                                                                                                                                                       ment                                                                                                 ment                                                                                                                                                                                       ems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M                                                                                                                                                          gea                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Alien                                                                                                                                                                 lienA                                                                                                                                                                                                   nagementa                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILISATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M                                        Fish                                                             ienlA                                   nesse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    os                                                                                                                                                          Management                                                                                                                                                                 MANAGEME                                                                                             gementa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                plann                          TERA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       man                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nagea                                                                                                                                                                                     Syst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Marine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Awar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                       planning                                                                                                                                    W/                                                                                  (disuse                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Man                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Alien                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fynb                                                                                                                                                                                                                                mmunity-BoC                                                   Manage
                                                                                                                           Mainstreaming                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Integrating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Urban                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Estuarine                                                                                                                                                       Fire                                                                                                 Fire                                                                                                                  Invasive                                                                                                                                                              Invasive                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Invasive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tourism

                                                            CATEGORY                                                                    iii.C                                                                                                                                                                                                        LAND   Restoration                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   eciespS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               land-use                                                                                                   C.iv.                          .D            D.i                                                                    Drylands                                                Wetlands                            Renosterveld                                                                                                                        ii.D                                                           watershed                                                                                                    iii.D                                                                                                                                                      D.iv                                                                                                 D.v                                                                                                                       D.vi                                                      Management                                                                                                  vii.D                                                                                           Bio-control                                                                                              Integrated                                   Invasive                                                             viii.D                                                                   SUSTAINABLE                                                 Wild                                                                                                          Coastal/ii                                               iii                                                                 iv                                                                                            ANCILLARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Education/                                      E.                                                   E.i                                                                                                                 E.                                                E.                                                                 E.                                                     Resource                                      F.                                                                                                   E.i                                                        Ichthyofauna

                                                                     stock

                                                                          and



                                                                             catcher)
                                                                                                                              P

                                                                                     Oyster                                    CPN
                                                                                                                                  in
NOTES                                                                                      Black                                    fish

                                                                                                (i.e.
     SITES/                                                                                                                             marine

                                                                                                     birds                                    for




           TARGETED                                                                                       threatened                             assessments


                   FP
                     CE                                                                                             ×


                       IBA

                          E.
                            P.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          95
                              A.
                                C.




                                                                                                                                                                  Benguela
                                  IES                                                                                                                                     in                                                                anoxia

                                                                                                                                                                            lity                                                                  des/ti

                                     ACTIVIT                                                                                                                                    variabi                                                                 red
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           for
                                            GEF

                                               OF
                                                 N                                                                                                                                     ronmental                                                              warning

                                                                                                                                                                                                envi                                                                 early
                                                  PTIOI


                                                       DESCR                                                                                                                                        Researching                                                           Ecosystem,




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nei

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mar



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Offshoreii
                                                            CATEGORY                                                 Avifauna                               Flora                                                                        E.

Annex 8:       Project description summary

Project components (See Annex 1)

The Project has seven inter-related components that serve to meet the Development
Objectives of the Program. The first four components (institutional strengthening, involving
people, establishing the foundations of the biodiversity economy and program co-ordination
management and monitoring) serve to meet Development Objective 1, while the other three
components (unleashing the potential of protected areas, identifying and securing biodiversity
in key sites, and integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management) serve to meet
Development Objective 2.

Component 1: Institutional strengthening

Output 1

Enhanced strategic alignment of conservation activities and increased capacity of relevant
institutions for integrated bioregional conservation management in the CFR supported by
comprehensive performance management and information management.

Subcomponents

1.1 Enhance inter-agency co-operation and strategic planning for conservation management
    in the CFR. This subcomponent will entail three activity clusters: facilitating the
    resolution of legal mandates and institutional roles for conservation of the CFR; assessing
    the requirements of the contributing agencies to meet their agreed mandates; and
    developing performance management system across implementing agencies to ensure
    alignment and compliance with CAPE 2000 Strategy. In particular it will address the
    alignment of the new Catchment Management Agencies and the incorporation of
    biodiversity concerns into watershed management (see Component 7).

1.2 Build capacity for effective conservation management in the CFR. This subcomponent
    will entail undertaking training, based on participatory training needs assessment;
    undertaking an institutional and training needs assessment for the establishment of
    Eastern Cape Nature Conservation Agency; conducting a capacity building program in
    conjunction with THETA15; and facilitating and supporting the development of a
    networked program to attract and retain new entrants into conservation management. It
    will also conduct activity-specific capacity-building across the Project, including for the
    application of a participatory approach, for watershed management and for protected
    areas management.

1.3 Appraise and develop strategies for financial sustainability. This subcomponent will
    entail determining the financial needs of implementing agencies for all conservation
    management activities; and identifying and selecting appropriate funding mechanisms,
    targets and strategies for implementing agencies. This subcomponent will also involve
    assessing the contribution of protected area-based tourism to the sustainability of
    conservation management programs.


15Tourism and Hospitality Education and Training Authority



                                                   96

1.4 Establish a comprehensive information management system. This subcomponent will
   support the further development of the C.A.P.E. Information Management Unit as a
   partnership between key organizations. The Unit's responsibility will be the development
   and maintenance of a centralized data warehouse with standardized protocols for
   accession and distribution of information to executing agencies for both protected areas
   and landscape management.

Component 2: Conservation education

Output 2: Increased environmental awareness and committed action of people in the CFR
contributes to biodiversity conservation.

Subcomponents

2.1 Raise awareness and understanding of biodiversity issues and benefits in the CFR. This
   subcomponent will entail establishing a conservation education focal point in the CFR for
   facilitating co-ordinated programs at Project and site levels; developing and disseminating
   materials that focus on CFR biodiversity and C.A.P.E. Program components to support
   curriculum and educators; and training environmental educators and teachers to use the
   materials developed.

Component 3: Establishing the foundations of the biodiversity economy

Outputs 3: Market-based mechanisms for conservation management are designed to mitigate
negative impacts of growth.

Subcomponents

3.1 Identify and design market-based and fiscal mechanisms for conservation.

3.1.1 Undertake an economic evaluation of the ecological services value of the CFR . The
       aim of the study is to identify the economic value and willingness of consumers to
       pay for maintenance of key ecological services, resources and products from the CFR
       in order to achieve biodiversity benefits. The study will build on what is already
       identified as a key ecological service and for which consumers have indicated
       willingness to pay- namely provision of clean water through maintaining watersheds
       clear of alien vegetation. The study will also identify those key resources and
       ecological services under threat for which there is no potential willing buyer and for
       which tax incentives and other mechanisms are required to ensure conservation.

3.1.2 Evaluate the effectiveness of existing market-based mechanisms and pilot payment
       for certain ecological services (support conservation of biodiversity through water
       payment charges to upstream landowners). This subcomponent will, based on the
       economic valuation of the CFR, design and pilot payment for ecological services in
       the water sector. The intention is that landowners will be paid to keep catchments
       clear of alien vegetation thereby boosting water run off, biodiversity conservation and
       reducing the need for new dams. One other sector such as the market for payment for
       carbon sequestration will also be examined. The actual payment for ecological
       services will need to be financed by purchasers of services themselves;




                                             97

3.1.3 Design and pilot market-based mechanisms at the municipal and national level, e.g.
       rates rebates and tradable development rights. Building on dialogue with National
       Treasury, this sub-component will also investigate, design, monitor and pilot a tax
       incentive system to support landowners to conserve irreplaceable biodiversity in
       threatened lowland areas.

3.2    Develop mechanisms for lessening impacts of business on biodiversity.

3.2.1 Support the development, implementation and monitoring of a Biodiversity Charter.
       This entails establishing a vision, set of principles, and responsibilities and targets for
       commitment of the wine, wheat, ostrich and tourism industries to biodiversity
       management. A certification and compliance system will be developed and piloted for
       those businesses linked to biodiversity conservation objectives in the CFR.

3.2.2 Support the development of micro-enterprises for conservation management. Building
       on previous GEF Bank successes, developing community-public-private partnership
       arrangements to support emerging community eco-enterprises in environmental
       rehabilitation and minor tourism/ infrastructure development.


Component 4: Program and Project co-ordination, management and monitoring

Output 4: Enhanced management capacity, effective communication and efficient adaptive
management result in the integrated development and implementation of the C.A.P.E.
Program.

Subcomponents

4.1  Program and project co-ordination, management and monitoring. This subcomponent
     will entail undertaking program co-ordination, management and monitoring;
     undertaking financial management; undertaking program management, co-ordinated
     monitoring and evaluation; undertaking a communications program and providing
     support for stakeholder participation.

Component 5: Unleashing the potential of protected areas

Output 5: Protected areas contributing to priority targets for conservation of the biodiversity
of the CFR are consolidated or established; cost-effective management is sustained; tourism
development plans are implemented; and stakeholders derive direct and indirect benefits.

Subcomponents

5.1  Establish and consolidate key protected areas. This subcomponent will entail
     consolidating and expanding priority protected areas (Baviaanskloof, Garden Route,
     Cedarberg) with an emphasis on developing the linkages through critically threatened
     lowland habitats [the Gouritz area is prioritized as a recipient of CEPF funding for a
     similar set of activities]; establishing two priority freshwater and two estuarine
     protected areas; and establishing two priority marine protected areas (Garden Route
     and Kogelberg). The Project will pilot fisheries co-management arrangements in the
     Kogelberg Marine Protected Area using spatial set-asides. The baseline of protected
     areas is detailed in Table 1 below, and the Project will seek to expand the area under
     protection by 4000km2.



                                               98

5.2  Develop sustainable management effectiveness. This subcomponent will entail
     designing and testing a Strategic Performance Management System in three target
     protected areas; developing plans for responsible tourism and visitor impact mitigation
     in four target protected areas; facilitating development of tourism infrastructure and
     facilities; developing protected area business plans and mechanisms for financial
     sustainability for four target protected areas; implementing high impact management
     programs; and undertaking skills development for protected area management.

Component 6: Identifying and securing biodiversity in key sites

Output 6: Biodiversity in priority remnant patches in fragmented landscapes is identified and
secured in conjunction with civil society

Subcomponents

6.1  Undertake fine-scale conservation planning in priority areas. This subcomponent will
     entail undertaking fine scale conservation analysis in five priority areas:, Riversdale,
     Niewoudtville, Upper Breede River Valley, North West Sandveld, and the West Coast
     lowlands including Saldanha Peninsula. [The priority South East Lowlands are a
     potential recipient of CEPF funds]. The fine scale planning will inform other sub-
     components, and form the basis for priority actions to secure the protection of the most
     important sites.

6.2  Integrate biodiversity into land-use decision-making. This subcomponent will entail
     integrating fine scale conservation plans into government spatial planning, building
     institutional and individual capacity in municipalities in priority areas, and
     strengthening regulation in land-use planning.

6.3  Increase landowner commitment to conservation. This subcomponent will entail testing
     and refining non-fiscal incentives, building co-ordinated extension services and piloting
     cooperative management schemes in priority areas.


Component 7: Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management

Output 7: Biodiversity concerns are integrated into watershed management

Subcomponents

7.1  Improve watershed management and water resource management. This subcomponent
     will entail increasing the effectiveness of the "Ecological Reserve" measure in water
     resource management; incorporating biodiversity concerns into the new fire
     management      system;    and    incorporating     biodiversity   concerns    into water
     conservation/water demand management programs.

7.2  Improve management of invasive alien species (IAS). This subcomponent will entail
     creating an IAS management strategy and business plan for the entire CFR;
     establishing centres of excellence for IAS prevention and management in the CFR; and
     piloting the control of invasive alien fish in three priority freshwater ecosystems.




                                               99

7.3    Improve estuarine management program. This subcomponent will entail designing and
       testing a CFR estuarine management program, based on relevant case studies.




Table 1. Extent of protected areas in the CFR

Statutory Conservation    Management Authority                   Number of      Total Area
Area                                                             conservation   (km2)
                                                                 areas
Wilderness Area           Western Cape Nature Conservation                    4       1169.24
                          Board, Department of Economic Affairs,
                          Environment and Tourism: Eastern Cape
National Park             South African National Parks                         7       902.83
Provincial Nature Reserve Western Cape Nature Conservation                   79       5776.88
                          Board Department of Economic Affairs,
                          Environment and Tourism: Eastern Cape
Marine Protected Area     Western Cape Nature Conservation                    7        419.29
                          Board/ South African National Parks
Island Reserves           Western Cape Nature Conservation                   12          2.95
                          Board
Local Authority Nature    Various District Councils and                      38        255.82
Reserve                   Municipalities
Mountain Catchment Area   Western Cape Nature Conservation                   15       6190.37
                          Board and private landowners
Private Conservation
Area
Private Nature Reserve    Private landowners                                 148      1223.98
Conservancies             Private landowners                                 43       5631.20
Natural Heritage Sites    Private landowners                                 36        331.98
Biosphere Reserves        Private landowners and Western Cape                 2       4608.18
                          Nature Conservation Board




                                               END




                                                100

