E835
December 2003
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK FOR C.A.P.E.
C,1°ON FOJR
December 4th 2003
World Bank Project ID: GE-P052368
UNDP Project ID: SAF/02/G42/1 G/03
Country: Republic of South Africa
Project Title: C.A.P.E. Biodiversity and Sustainable Development Project
GEF Agency: World Bank (Lead), UNDP
Other Executing Agency/Agencies: National Botanical Institute of South Africa
Prepared for the C.A.P.E Program
With input from the Environmental Evaluation Unit, University of Cape Town
()A O T A N I C( A X
I I I T I 'l I I 1,



ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK FOR C.A.P.E.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................i
1. PROJECT OVERVIEW                .        .       .
1.1 Introduction                         .1
1.2   Project Context and Receiving Environment       .1
1.3 Institutional Arrangements                 .4
2. SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES AND POTENTIAL IMPACTS             .6
2.1 Introduction                         .6
2.2   Policy and Legal framework: South African legislation that will trigger an
assessment process                        ..6
2.3  World Bank Safeguard Policies .10
2.4  CFR Activities and Environmental Assessment Processes .10
3. DESCRIPTION AND DISCUSSION OF WORLD BANK AND SOUTH AFRICAN EA
PROCEDURES              ..22
3.1  The South African and World Bank EA processes .22
3.2   Discussion of Screening and Scoping .25
3.3 Discussion of the EA and Public Consultation Processes  . .30
3.4  Concluding  Comments ........................................................................................... 31
4. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK .33
5. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY AND COMMITMENT .45
6. PUBLIC CONSULTATION .47
REFERENCES              ..59
APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1: S.A. GOVERNMENT ENVIRONMENT CONSERVATION ACT, 1989
APPENDIX 2: C.A.P.E. PROGRAMME: POLICY FOR STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION
2



LIST OF TABLES
Table 2.1 World Bank Operational Policies and Procedures ........................................ 10
Table 2.2 Summarised list of projects and their possible impacts ................................ 11
Table 3.1 Description and comparison of South African and World Bank EA processes .23
Table 3.2 SA listed activities and World Bank environmental assessment categories ..... 26
Table 3.3 Content requirements for World Bank EMPs and mitigation and monitoring
component of SA EIA reports .............................................................. 31
Table 4.1: EMSF Screening Table ..............................................................     38
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: CAPE Programme institutional arrangements ....................................................9
Figure 2: Comparison of SA EIA and WB EA Procedures ...........................      ..................... 30
Figure 3: EA Procedure for CAPE activities ..............................................................   42
Figure 4: Likely EA scenario .............................................................. 43
3



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CAPE is a large-scale, multi-sectoral GEF funded conservation programme that aims to
conserve, restore and enhance biodiversity in the Cape Floral Kingdom and the adjacent marine
environment as well as deliver significant economic benefits to the region and its people. The
focus of the CAPE (Cape Action Plan for People and the Environment) programme is on
enhancing biodiversity conservation in the CFR and strengthening institutional capacity to
achieve this. In view of these goals and objectives, it is unlikely that the implementation of the
programme will result in any significant negative environmental and social impacts. However, in
order to ensure that the CAPE programme activities comply with World Bank safeguard policies
and procedures, it is necessary to develop an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF), which indicates how social and environmental impacts will be addressed
should they occur and what environmental assessment procedure should be followed. This
report describes the ESMF for the CAPE programme.
The Environmental Evaluation Unit of the University of Cape Town, was appointed to prepare
an ESMF for CAPE. In order to prepare the ESMF a review of relevant literature (e.g. the Project
concept document, specialist reports on the individual programme components) and relevant
policies and legislation was undertaken. From the available information, a draft ESMF was
drafted. Comment on the draft ESMF was obtained from a workshop with members of the CAPE
Coordinating Unit and key implementing agencies. Having integrated these comments, the draft
ESMF will be circulated for public comment, after which it will be finalized.
The key findings of the review of relevant documents and the World Bank and South African
policies and legislation were that:
* The CAPE programme is largely dedicated to institutional strengthening, capacity building,
improved planning and biodiversity management. Many of the proposed activities involve
detailed planning exercises which are likely to have significant benefits. These planning
exercises themselves are unlikely to trigger environmental assessment processes, although
social and environmental factors, and particularly cumulative impacts, will need to be taken
into account in the planning process. It is expected that the project implementers will use
the recommended CAPE Participatory Framework to ensure that the various planning
exercises take environmental and social factors into account.
* Most of the activities that may result in environmental impacts and may thus trigger a
formal environmental assessment process are likely to emanate from component 5 of the
CFR CAPE programme. This component involves the establishment of mega reserves. It also
involves provision of tourist infrastructure, development of small and medium enterprises,
as well as provision of communication services and infrastructure upgrading. Activities listed
in terms of the South African Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) regulations, such as
provision of roads, and changes of land use will result in the SA EIA process being triggered.
Should these activities result in significant negative environmental or social consequences,



or occur in a sensitive environment, certain World Bank safeguard policies would also be
triggered.
* Although World Bank and South African environmental assessment (EA) processes are
triggered by slightly different factors, the South African and World Bank EA requirements
are very similar. The main difference is that World Bank category A projects (and sometimes
category B projects) require the design and implementation of an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP). An EMP is not a specified requirement of the SA EA process,
although it is often cited as being a condition of project approval in the authority's Record of
Decision.
* The SA EIA regulations, when applied together with the principles and requirements of the
National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) will ensure that environmental and social
impacts are fully addressed. As a further safeguard, social impacts involving resettlement
and/or loss of access to resources, will trigger the World Bank's Involuntary Resettlement
safeguard policy. This policy requires certain procedures to be followed in the event of
possible significant social impacts. These are documented in the Resettlement Policy
Framework that has been created for the CAPE programme which needs to be read together
with this ESMF.
It was thus concluded that the ESMF could be strongly structured around the existing SA EA
process. The ESMF thus consists of a slightly expanded South African EA process, whereby an
EMP becomes a component of projects being assessed. This EMP could be compiled either as
an adjunct to the Scoping report, or as an adjunct to the EIA report. The ESMF process thus
involves:
a) Determining which environmental assessment route needs to be followed and which World
Bank Operational Policies may be relevant. Implementing agencies should use Table 2, a
screening table, to assist them in this process.
b) Proceeding with the expanded EA process. This may involve going through both the Scoping
and EIA processes (see Figure 3) or simply undertaking a Scoping process and preparing an
EMP (see Figure 4).
The implementing agencies will be responsible for applying the ESMF and liaising with the
relevant provincial and/or national authorities. Both the relevant provincial authorities and the
World Bank would be involved in evaluating the adequacy of the Scoping/EIA reports and EMPs
produced.
As the EA processes being followed are already being extensively applied in South Africa, no
new skills are required. It is expected that existing institutional capacity to implement the ESMF
will be adequate, particularly once the capacity building and institutional strengthening
components of the CAPE project are implemented. The key components of the ESMF and RPF
will need to be communicated in the capacity building components of the CAPE programme.
ii



1. PROJECT OVERVIEW
1.1   Introduction
CAPE is a large-scale, multi-faceted GEF funded conservation programme that aims to conserve,
restore and enhance biodiversity in the Cape Floral Kingdom and the adjacent marine
environment as well as deliver significant economic benefits to the region and its people. The
focus of the CAPE programme is on enhancing biodiversity conservation in the CFR and
strengthening institutional capacity to achieve this. In view of these goals and objectives it is
unlikely that the implementation of the programme will result in any significant negative
environmental and social impacts. However, in order to ensure that the CAPE programme
activities comply with World Bank safeguard policies and procedures, it is necessary to develop
an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for CAPE, which indicates how
social and environmental impacts will be addressed should they occur, and what environmental
assessment procedure will be followed. This report provides a proposed ESMF for the CAPE
programme.
1.2   Project Context and Receiving Environment
The Cape Floristic Region (CFR), which covers an area of 90 000 square kilometers, comprises
one of the six Floral Kingdoms of the world. The region, which includes large areas of the
Western Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces the Republic of South Africa, is extremely rich in
species diversity and is characterized by high levels of endemism. It is also home to over 1 400
Red Data Book species'.
The CFR spans the provinces of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape and has an estimated
population of approximately 5,2 million. Although the majority of the population reside in the
main urban centers, approximately 20-30% of the population live in rural areas, which harbour
the greatest biodiversity. However, many urban settlements are also located on or adjacent to
biologically significant areas.
The population is dispersed across a wide area and is characterized by diversity in terms of
ethnicity, language and culture. There are large pockets of poverty existing throughout the
region, in both rural and urban areas. On the whole, the population of the Western Cape enjoys
a greater degree of human, economic and social development than their Eastern Cape
counterparts, where unemployment is estimated at 49%. Many poor rural communities are
dependent upon natural wild resources, particularly marine resources and medicinal plants for
subsistence purposes and income generation.
1 For more detail on the ecological and socio-economic aspects of the CFR, refer to the C.A.P.E. Project
Concept Document (PCD), 2003.



A range of land tenure arrangements is in evidence, including large, medium and small free
holdings, state-owned land under different management arrangements, and a small proportion
of communal land. Much of the biological heritage is located on land outside the public land
estate. The area also includes areas and resources of cultural and heritage value to local
indigenous populations and the broader South African community.
In response to its global commitments and national goals with respect to sustainable
development and biodiversity conservation, and the GEF Medium-Term Project Framework
2000, the Government of South Africa (GoSA) developed an innovative programme to protect
the rich biological heritage of the Cape Floristic Region (CFR). The overall goal of this
Programme, entitled Cape Action for People and the Environment (CAPE Programme) is that the
natural environment of the Cape Floristic Region and adjacent marine environment will be
effectively conserved, restored wherever appropriate and will deliver significant benefits to the
people in a way that is embraced by local communities, endorsed by government and
recognized internationally. With support from GEF, the CAPE 2000 Strategy was developed
which identified key ecological resources and processes that required conservation as well as
the key threats to biodiversity in the CFR. This resulted in the preparation of a spatial plan
identifying the key areas requiring conservation and the development of a programme of
activities which needs to be implemented over a 20 year period.
Phase 1 of the programme involves a GEF grant of US$ 11 million, with significant contributions
from executing agents and other donor agencies. This phase will result in gains to biodiversity
efforts, through the expansion of protected areas by 4 800 square kilometers, removing
institutional and financial barriers and threats to biodiversity conservation and laying the
foundation for the "conservation economy".
GEF support to the first 5-6 years of the CAPE Programme (Phase 1) includes a Critical
Ecosystem Partnership Fund allocation for civil society involvement, complemented by the CAPE
Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative and the subject of this application, the CAPE: Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Development Project.
The Project is aimed at (i) establishing the systemic and institutional framework for effective
implementation of the CAPE Programme, and (ii) piloting and demonstrating site-based
interventions in the CFR, through incorporating an additional 20 000km2 of protected area. It
also aims to establish the know-how for conservation required to give effect to the CAPE
Programme. There are two Project Development Objectives requiring GEF support:
*  Project Development Objective 1: Capable institutions co-operate to develop a foundation
for mainstreaming biodiversity into economic activities in the Cape Floristic Region.
*  Project Development Objective 2: Conservation of the Cape Floristic Region is enhanced
through piloting and adapting site-based models for sustainable, effective management.
2



From an environmental perspective, the overriding benefit of the Programme is that priority
terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation areas in the globally significant CFR and
adjacent marine environment will be secured through a suite of interventions, including (i)
expansion and consolidation of the protected area system and enhancing management
effectiveness in these areas; (ii) integration of biodiversity concerns into land-use decision-
making; (iii) supporting co-management initiatives involving landowners and the private sector;
(iv) incorporating biodiversity concerns into watershed management; (v) improving
management of invasive alien species and of estuaries; and (vi) reducing ecological impacts
associated with fires and inappropriate land use. The programme also aims to conserve cultural
resources and the cultural heritage of the region. Additional environmental benefits will include
enhanced watershed management, increased availability of water and reduced soil erosion.
The main socio-economic benefits of the CAPE Programme are linked to the creation of a
conservation economy. In phase 1, the main socio-economic benefit will be to the whole region
in the form of an improved eco-tourism product which can be marketed internationally. Other
more direct benefits which would accrue to the private sector and landowners include:
*  the stimulation of eco-friendly investment in tourism destinations (including outsourcing and
concessions in protected areas);
.  enhanced land values in areas surrounding protected areas as well as for private land
incorporated into conservation areas;
*  involvement of landowners in management of priority conservation areas and opportunities
to participate in associated economic activities;
*  opportunities for improvements in farm efficiency and sustainability as a result of improved
extension services aimed at reducing pesticide use and improving land management
practices;
*  improved access to export markets that respond positively to sustainable land management
practices; and
*  greater stability and efficiency in the fishing and coastal harvesting industry brought about
through reduced unauthorized harvesting and more effective resource allocation.
Implementation of the CAPE programme will also result in socio-economic benefits to civil
society including disadvantaged groups and individuals, as well as NGOs. Benefits envisaged
include:
.  an increase in employment levels and wages with more stable working conditions on
marginal agricultural land suitable for conservation purposes;
*  within protected areas and watersheds, environmental rehabilitation activities, creation of
much needed employment and micro-enterprise development opportunities;
*  environmental education, training and capacity building opportunities enabling groups and
individuals to participate in programme activities more effectively, and to exploit
entrepreneurial opportunities and access benefits; and
.  opportunities for relevant NGOs to play pivotal roles in Programme implementation, in
partnership with government agencies.
3



1.3   Institutional Arrangements
Institutional arrangements for the coordination and implementation of CAPE have been
developed and endorsed through formal Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs).
Figure 1 provides an overview of the structures and their relationship to one another.
Figure 1: CAPE Programme institutional arrangements
CAPE Coordination Committee
(national and provincial ministers)
CAPE Implementation Committee (        National Botanical   n
(govt., parastatal, funders and key  pnstitute
stake/ _ sl-
CAPE
Coordination
I InitI
The MOU created two key structures, the CAPE Coordinating Committee (CCC) and the CAPE
Implementation Committee (CIC). The former, operates at a political level between national and
provincial government and is concerned with coordinating the long-term implementation of the
CAPE 2000 Strategy by the executing agencies, and representing the common interests of the
Parties (to the MOU) on matters concerning the CFR. The CCC currently includes representation
of the signatories to the MOU, the National Ministries of Environmental Affairs and Tourism and
Water Affairs and Forestry, as well as the Members of the Executive Councils of the Western
Cape and Eastern Cape, responsible for environmental affairs and management. The CIC
comprises representatives from government departments, municipalities and statutory bodies
and accredited non-governmental organizations. It is ultimately responsible for executing the
CAPE 2000 Strategy according to the recommendations of the CCC and operates at a technical
level. The National Botanical Institute (NBI), a member of the CIC, was appointed by the GoSA
as the programme manager and will be responsible for providing a high-level coordination and
management role. The NBI is responsible and accountable to the CCC.
The CAPE Coordination Unit (CCU) acts as the secretariat and focal point for coordination of the
programme and is located within the Directorate of Biodiversity Planning and Policy of the NBI.
The CCU is in fact the key integrative structure for the coordinated and cooperative
implementation for CAPE.
Execution of programme components will mainly be undertaken by the South African National
Parks, the Western Cape Nature Conservation Board, the Western Cape Department of
Environment Affairs and Development Planning, the Eastern Cape Department of Economic
4



Affairs, Environment and Tourism, the City of Cape Town and the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan
Municipality as well as selected NGOs. The Protected Area component of the programme will
primarily be implemented by the South African National Parks, the Wilderness Foundation,
Provincial Conservation agencies in the Western and Eastern Cape Provinces and larger local
authorities in cooperation with the private sector. The NBI, as the Programme Management
Agency, will enter into standard contractual agreements with lead executing agencies for the
execution of the elements of the Programme. Coordination and implementation of the
programme involves all spheres of government, parastatals, NGOs and private sector players.
While activities associated with development of the CAPE Strategy have resulted in improved
coordination with respect to biodiversity management of the CFR, strategic alignment of
participating institutions and even the internalization of aspects of the CAPE Strategy into
institutional arrangements, there are still institutional issues which need to be addressed. These
revolve around lack of clear mandates, roles and responsibilities in conservation planning and
management in the CFR, inadequate inter-agency coordination as well as lack of capacity and
resources of provincial environmental departments involved in implementing aspects of the
programme. These issues will be discussed in greater detail in section 5 with specific reference
to the ESMF.
5



2. SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES AND POTENTIAL IMPACTS
2.1   Introduction
This section briefly outlines the main components of the CAPE programme and identifies the
main pieces of legislation and policies that are relevant to its implementation.
CAPE is a large scale 20 year program aimed at conserving biodiversity in the Cape Floral
Kingdom as well as delivering significant social and economic benefits to people.
Most of the activities for Phase 1 (6 years) are aimed at institutional strengthening, education,
planning, expanding the area under conservation, innovative management approaches,
maintenance of biodiversity and limited infrastructure development activities. The main
components of the programme are listed below.
1. Institutional strengthening
2. Conservation Education
3. Establishing the foundations of the biodiversity economy
4. Program coordination, management and monitoring
5. Establishing and consolidating key protected areas
6. Identifying and securing biodiversity in priority areas
7. Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management and improving estuarine
management.
In general, the activities associated with implementing the programme are unlikely to result in
significant negative environmental impacts. However, component 5 (creation of mega reserves)
may involve certain activities that could result in negative impacts, and will trigger World Bank
policies and procedures as well as the South African environmental assessment (EA)
procedures.
The activities that are associated with programme implementation and that could result in
environmental impacts are discussed in this section. We begin by providing an overview of the
key polices and laws that are of most relevance to the EA process in the CFR programme.
2.2   Policy and Legal framework: South African legislation that will trigger an
assessment process
Since 1989, a plethora of legislation relevant to environmental management has been published
in South Africa. The key legislation is briefly described below.
6



The Environmental Conservation Act 73 of 1989 and its associated regulations
The promulgation of the EIA regulations on 5 September 1997, in terms of Section 21, 26 and
28 of the Environment Conservation Act 73 of 1989 (ECA), marked the introduction of
mandatory EIAs in South Africa. In terms of the Regulations, environmental assessments are
legally required for a range of listed activities (see Appendix 1). The listed activities are
activities that have the potential to have a substantial detrimental effect on the 'environment',
which is defined to cover both biophysical and socio-economic components. The EIA regulations
further prescribe a set of rules that regulate the EIA procedure and designate the competent
authority that may issue authorizations to persons undertaking listed activities. Applications to
undertake listed activities must be made in compliance with the EIA Regulations and the
provisions of any other applicable laws, such as those regulating planning and agricultural
activities.
The National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998
The National Environmental Management Act (107 of 1998) (NEMA) contains a set of national
environmental principles which have to be taken into account when performing any action that
may significantly affect the environment. The principles serve as the general framework within
which environmental and implementation plans must be formulated. Section 2, point 4(i) states
that 'the social, economic and environmental impacts of activities, including disadvantages and
benefits, must be considered, assessed and evaluated, and decisions must be appropriate in the
light of such consideration and assessment'. The provisions for undertaking environmental
assessments are addressed in Section 23 and 24 of Chapter 5 of the NEMA, whose general
objectives are to 'ensure the integrated environmental management of activities'. 'Activities' as
used in Chapter 5, are defined as policies, programmes, plans and projects. Section 24 requires
that the potential environmental impacts associated with listed activities are investigated,
assessed and communicated. This requirement extends to activities which require authorization
in terms of the ECA, as well as all activities which may significantly affect the environment. In
other words, activities not listed under the EIA Regulations, but which could have a significant
impact on the environment will require some form of environmental assessment in terms of
NEMA. The text of section Section 24(7) of NEMA states that the potential impact on the
environment, socio-economic conditions and cultural heritage of activities that require
authorization or permission by law and which may significantly affect the environment, must be
considered, investigated and assessed prior to implementation, and reported to the relevant
regulatory authority. Procedures for the investigation, assessment and communication of the
potential impacts of activities are contained in section 24 (7). In terms of Section 28 (4) of the
NEMA, the authorities can also request that an EIA be undertaken for an existing, authorized or
completed activity where such an activity has caused, or is likely to cause significant pollution or
environmental degradation and reasonable measures have not been taken to prevent such
pollution or degradation.
7



The National Heritage Resources Act (107 of 1999)
The National Heritage Resources Act (107 of 1999) (NHRA) provides for the undertaking of
heritage impact assessments in certain circumstances. With some exceptions, any person
undertaking a development of a type named in the NHRA, must 'at the very earliest stages of
initiating such a development' notify the relevant heritage resources authority and furnish it
with details regarding the nature, location and extent of the proposed development. A heritage
impact assessment is not required if an impact assessment is carried out under the
requirements of other legislation such as the ECA, the integrated environmental management
guidelines issued by DEAT, the new Minerals Act or any other legislation, and the consenting
authority is satisfied that the assessment contains the information required by the heritage
resources authority, and provided that the comments of the heritage resources authority are
taken into account before any consent for development is granted.
Outeniqua Sensitive Coastal Area Extension Regulations (OSCA)
Under section 21(1) of the ECA, the Minister has promulgated the OSCA regulations, under
which various activities have been identified as having the potential to have a substantial
detrimental effect on the environment of the Outeniqua Sensitive Coastal Area Extension. The
activities are:
* The disturbance of vegetation
* Earth works
* Dredging
* Dune stabilization
These activities can only be undertaken after authorization from the Minister or a 'competent
authority' designated by the Minister. Authorisation may only be issued by authorities after
consideration of reports concerning the impact of the proposed activity and of alternative
proposed activities on the environment. All persons wanting to undertake the above activities in
the Outeniqua Sensitive Coastal Area have to comply with the provisions of the ECA, the OSCA
regulations and the provisions of NEMA. The OSCA regulations do not apply to the activities
identified in the EIA regulations, nor to activities subject to approval under the Sea Shore Act,
the old Minerals Act or the Nature and Environmental Conservation Ordinance.
The Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act 43 of 1983
The Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act (CARA) aims to protect and sustainably utilize
the natural agricultural resources of South Africa. The Minister of Agriculture and Land Affairs
has published regulations under CARA in which he has prescribed control measures with which
all land users have to comply, in respect of a number of matters, including:
* The cultivation of virgin soil
* The protection of cultivated land
8



* The utilization and protection of the veld and
* The prevention and control of veld fires and the restoration and reclamation of eroded land.
The regulations also deal with the control of weeds and invader plants.
The regulations under both OSCA and CARA may need to be taken into account in
implementing component 5 (creation of mega reserves) of the CAPE Programme.
The above legislation would trigger environmental assessments or permit applications for those
CFR activities that could have a negative impact on the environment. Although the activities
listed under the EIA Regulations do not specifically identify social issues or activities, it should
be noted that, in terms of ECA and NEMA 'environment' is understood to include the bio-
physical, socio-economic, and cultural heritage issues. Furthermore, NEMA does require that
social aspects be fully addressed and integrated into environmental assessment processes.
New legislation
South Africa is in the process of developing and implementing new legal and institutional
frameworks for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use and thus facilitate the
implementation of the 1997 White Paper on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of South
Africa's Biological Diversity. Constitutionally assigned roles and responsibilities of the national,
provincial and local spheres of government will be more clearly defined through the National
Environmental Management: Protected Areas Bill and Biodiversity Bill. Chapter 3 of the latter Bill
calls for the preparation and adoption of a National Biodiversity Framework (NBF). The NBF will
provide for an integrated, coordinated and uniform approach to biodiversity management,
identify priority areas for conservation and establish norms and standards to guide provincial
and municipal environmental conservation plans. As a contracting party to the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD), South Africa is in the process of developing a National Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP) that will identify targets for implementation. The
development of the NBSAP will be structured around the key thematic areas of Conservation,
Sustainable Use and Access and Benefit Sharing, with poverty alleviation, economic integration,
capacity building and awareness raising as the key cross-cutting themes. (Laros, CAPE May
2003).
The above legislative developments will have an influence on the CAPE programme and may
result in greater controls being placed on activities taking place in environmentally sensitive
areas. Consequently, the ESMF may need to be revisited and reworked once the new legislation
is promulgated.
There are various World Bank Operational Policies and Procedures that are potentially relevant
to the CAPE programme. These are listed below.
9



2.3    World Bank Safeguard Policies
In contrast to the South African environmental assessment legislation, which relies on specific
listed activities to trigger the environmental assessment process, the World Bank safeguard
policies, and specifically the environmental assessment procedure, are determined not only by
the type or scale of project, but also by its location, sensitivity of the environment, and the
nature and magnitude of potential environmental impacts. As the particular suite of projects
being proposed are geared towards enlarging the area under protection and improving their
management, it is unlikely that World Bank safeguard policies will be applicable. There are
however six operational policies that need to be taken into account and referred to. These are
listed in table 2.1 below.
Table 2.1 World Bank Operational Policies and Procedures
Policy number   Name           Applicability in this CFR component
OP4.04          Natural        Integration of conservation of natural habitats into national and
Habitats       regional development, maintenance of ecological functions and
rehabilitation of degraded habitats. Relevant to component 5.
OP4.01/BP4.01   Environmental  EA  required  if project is undertaken  with  significant
Assessment     environmental impact - EA is categorized into Category A, B C or
FI depending on type, location, sensitivity and scale of project
and nature and magnitude of potential impacts.
OP4.36          Forests        Addresses the potential impact of the project on forests and/or
the rights and welfare of local communities. May be relevant to
component 5, particularly in the Baviaanskloof area.
OP4.09          Pest           Assesses impacts and risks of pest management.
Management     Unlikely to be needed.
OP4.11          Cultural       Assessment of impacts on    sites having  archaeological,
Property       palaeontological, historical, religious, and unique natural value
(e.g. natural environmental features such as canyons and
waterfalls). May be relevant to component 5.
OP4.12         Involuntary     Addresses impacts associated with resettlement, i.e economic
resettlement   and physical displacement, loss of land and property and loss of
access to economic and natural (meaning both land and marine)
resources. Most of the potential social impacts associated with
component 5 will be covered by this policy. (Refer to
Resettlement Policy Framework for CAPE).
2.4    CFR Activities and Environmental Assessment Processes
Table 2.2 summarises the key components of the CFR programme, identifies their location and
possible impacts and notes whether South African environmental assessment SA (EA) or World
Bank requirements are likely to be triggered. There is further discussion on aspects of the table
content at the end of this section.
10



Table 2.2 Summarised list of projects and their possible impacts
COMPONENT/       LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND        SA  EIA   OR   WORLD     COMMENT
ACTIVITY                        POSSIBLE IMPACTS      BANK      SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
1. Institutional Nationally, but There are a variety of No                    All the proposed
strengthening    with a focus in activities, relating  to                      activities  should
the   Western  enhancing inter agency                        lead to improved
and    Eastern cooperation,                                   management and
Cape Provinces  performance      &                            sustainability  of
sustainability                                 protected areas.
The activities are
all  institutional
and      people
oriented.    No
physical activities
will take place
that will trigger
EIA    or   WB
safeguard policies
(SP's)
2.    Involving                 Conservation education  No                    All the activities
people        /                 activities                                    should lead   to
Conservation                                                                   better educated
Education                                                                      and    equipped
educators.
Consideration
could be given to
using
environmentally
friendly products
in          the
development  of
education
materials.
3. Establishing                 The proposed range of Unlikely                 These  activities
foundations for                 activities largely involve                     are likely to have
the biodiversity                development       of                           most impact in
economy                         mechanisms to lessen                           phase  2  when
the impacts of business                        particular
on  biodiversity. The                          strategies  are
activities  are largely                       implemented.
financial        and
institutional.



COMPONENT/       LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND         SA   EIA   OR   WORLD    COMMENT
ACTIVITY                         POSSIBLE IMPACTS      BANK      SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
4. Program co-                   All  the    proposed  No                       These   activities
ordination,                      activities       are                           should result in
management                       programmatic      or                           enhanced
and monitoring                   financial in nature                            management
capacity    and
ability.
5. Unleashing the potential of protected areas
5.1 Establishing
and consolidating
key    protected
areas
5.1.1 Consolidate  Baviaanskloof,  Potential  impacts Possibly. SA EIA process The requirements
3  priority large  Cederberg and  include:             could be triggered from  of the   National
protected  areas Garden Route    .  Loss of agricultural changes in land use or new  Heritage
including   fine                   land or productivity  infrastructure such as roads Resources  Act
scale planning                   .  Socio-economic     and      resorts     but will apply if there
impacts  due   to implementation is not likely is any potential
restricted/loss  of until Phase 2. WB  SPs damage        to
access to resources would  be  triggered  if heritage
(affecting         significant  damage   to resources.
communities        natural habitat (OP4.04) or
impacted  by  the  loss of or damage     to
mega       reserve  Cultural property (OP4.11)
process).          or impacts on forests or
.  Impacts associated  forest  users  (OP4.36)
with the upgrading  occurred. Social impacts
or construction of could arise but would not
infrastructure    trigger SA EIA regulations.
(linked to tourism
development or the                          Social   impacts
development    of                           would        be
small and medium                            addressed
enterprises)                                through the RPF.
12



COMPONENT/       LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND         SA   EIA   OR   WORLD    COMMENT
ACTIVITY                         POSSIBLE IMPACTS      BANK      SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
5.1.2 Establish 2  Doring  River, Improving       the  Potential social impacts will Potential  social
priority         Betty's    Bay  conservation status of not  trigger  the  EIA impacts    would
freshwater  and  wetland,        and        developing  regulations. If management trigger RPF.
two    estuarine  Gouritz River or management plans for plans require infrastructure
protected areas  Bitou    River the estuaries will lead  development or that rivers
floodplain.    to various social and  be   diverted  or  weirs
Berg     River ecological   benefits. (unlikely) constructed, then
estuary,       There will also be social the  EIA  regulations will
Heuningnes     costs if the protected  apply.
estuary,    or area     status    or
Keurbooms/     management      plans
Bitou estuary  affect access to and
use of resources and
systems    to   local
communities       or
recreation users.
5.1.3 Establish 2  Kogelberg    As above. Changes in As above. If the creation of Potential  socio-
priority  marine  Marine   Park access to and use of the    MPAs   require  the  economic impacts
protected  areas and Stilbaai/  resources are likely to  establishment       of will be addressed
including fisheries  Jongensfontein  trigger social impacts.  infrastructure (e.g. roads) by the RPF.
co-management    MPA             *     Loss of access the EIA regulations may be
arrangements in                        to   recreation  triggered. Changes in land
the    Kogelberg  Goukamma, De         fishing sites;  use of land contiguous to
Marine Protected  Hoop.          *     Loss of access MPA may also trigger the
Area (MPA)                             for      local EIA process.
resource
subsistence
users.
13



COMPONENT/       LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND         SA   EIA   OR   WORLD    COMMENT
ACTIVITY                         POSSIBLE IMPACTS      BANK      SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
5.2   Developing  Baviaanskloof,  There   are      no  Possibly. EIA  regulations The  fact  that
sustainable      Cederberg and  anticipated   impacts likely to be triggered if development
management       Garden Route   from the development implementation of tourism  activities will take
effectiveness                   of   Performance  and  plans requires construction  place  in  a
(includes                       Information            of  listed  infrastructure. protected  area
extensive                        Management   Systems Action    5.2.4  involves means that WB
concessioning                   or the development of facilitation of development Environmental
programme    for                 ecotourism            of tourist infrastructure and  Assessment
eco-tourism                     development plans.     facilities in target protected  policies  and
facilities  and                  Ecological and  social areas.  Infrastructure  as procedures
services     in                 impacts   may   result listed in Appendix 1 (e.g. (OP/BP4.01) are
protected areas)                 from   provision  of roads, sewage treatment relevant.
tourism  infrastructure  works, all structures below
and     from     the  the   High  Water   Mark
implementation    of (HWM), dams, reservoirs,
priority  management schemes for bulk water
actions in the protected  supply and waste disposal
areas    e.g.   alien  will require EIAs. Activities
clearing,   boundary  such as reclamation of land
demarcation,          below   the  HWM,    and
communication services changes in land use will
and      infrastructure  also  trigger  the  EIA
upgrading.   Granting  process. The WB SPs on
concession may affect Natural Habitats (OP4.04)
access to resources for and Cultural Property (4.1)
local users.          will be triggered if any such
areas are likely to be
damaged. An EA would be
required (likely category B)
if   significant  impacts
envisaged.
14



COMPONENT/        LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND         SA   EIA   OR    WORLD    COMMENT
ACTIVITY                          POSSIBLE IMPACTS      BANK       SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
6. Identifying and securing terrestrial biodiversity in key sites
6.1  Fine  scale  NW   Sandveld, No   negative  impacts The impacts are unlikely to
conservation     Saldanha        are expected from fine  trigger the EIA regulations
planning          Peninsula,     scale        planning, or World Bank safeguard
Swartland,      coordinated  extension  policies.
Overberg,       services, development
Upper   Breede  of conservation plans,
River,         integration         of
Riversdale      biodiversity
coastal  plain, considerations into land
Niewoudtville,  use    planning    &
Cape Flats      decision-making  and
municipal     capacity
building.  Piloting  of
cooperative
management schemes
may have minor social
and ecological impacts.
7. Integrating biodiversity concerns into watershed management
7.1   Improving  7.1.1           No   negative  impacts  No
watershed        Determine       expected         from
management and    Ecological     increasing        the
water   resource  Reserve:       effectiveness  of  the
management        Palmiet  River, ecological reserve  or
Berg     River, incorporating
Olifants  River biodiversity  concerns
catchment,     into  the   new    fire
Gouritz     or management system.
Gamtoos
catchment.
7.1.2 Integrate
biodiversity
concerns  into
fire
management
schemes:
Entire CFR. (No
international
waters
affected)
15



COMPONENT/      LOCATION       ACTIVITIES AND       SA   EIA  OR   WORLD    COMMENT
ACTIVITY                       POSSIBLE IMPACTS     BANK      SAFEGUARDS
TRIGGERED
7.2   Improving Whole CFR.     Neither creation of an No
management of                  Invasive       Alien
invasive   alien               Management Strategy
species                        nor establishment of
Centers of Excellence
for IAS prevention and
management      are
expected  to   have
negative impacts.
7.3   Improving Still  to  be  No  negative  impacts Neither the EIA regulations If social impacts
estuarine       determined,    are  expected  from  or  the   World   Bank result, the RPF
management      but   probably piloting an estuarine safeguard policies will be will be triggered.
Olifants,      management           triggered.
Lourens, Klein, programme. Testing of
Heuningnes,   the program may cause
Goukamma and   impacts but is unlikely
Bitou/        to   trigger  SA  EIA
Keurbooms      regulations or World
estuaries  for Bank policies.
designing  and
testing  of a
CFR estuarine
management
programme.
Components 1 - 4 of the CAPE programme are all related to increasing the capacity of
individuals and institutions for integrated bioregional conservation management. As can be seen
from Table 3.1, none of the activities are likely to trigger South African EIA requirements or the
World Bank Safeguard policies. The only activities in these first 4 components that might trigger
either a South African or World Bank environmental assessment process are as follows:
Component 1: Strengthening the institutional framework for coordinated conservation
management. Subcomponent 1.3: Developing financial sustainability through nature based
tourism for coordinated conservation activities. This activity includes creating an 'enabling
environment for nature based tourism through demonstration projects and upstream policy
and strategic planning activities involving the industry'. GEF will 'provide funding for
technical assistance to mainstream biodiversity management objectives into the sector
whereas the South African government will finance the costs of land and capital for the
demonstrations and of marketing ventures. As the demonstration projects are likely to draw
most of their funding from the SA government, it is likely that only SA environmental
requirements will be triggered. At this stage, it is unknown what the nature or scope of
16



these demonstration projects will be, but they might involve activities which could require
some level of environmental assessment. Such activities might include changes in land use
or establishment of infrastructure such as roads. Both of these types of activities are listed
activities under the regulations promulgated in terms of ECA (See Appendix 1 for the
complete list of listed activities).
* Component 3. Establishing foundations for the biodiversity economy. Subcomponent 3.2
states 'mechanisms for encouraging community enterprise development around
conservation objectives are designed and tested'. It is not yet clear what mechanisms are
envisaged but activities resulting in development of or changes to community enterprises or
SMME's could have environmental impacts which might need to be assessed.
The component of the CAPE programme that is most likely to trigger EA processes is
component 5: 'Unleashing the Potential of Protected Areas'. This component involves the
following activities:
5.1   Establishing and consolidating key protected areas
5.1.1  Consolidating 3 priority large protected areas, including fine scale planning. These areas
include the Baviaanskloof, Cederberg and Garden Route.
5.1.2  Establishment of 2 priority freshwater and two estuarine protected areas (Doring River,
Betty's Bay wetland, Gouritz River or Bitou River floodplain, Berg River estuary,
Heuningnes estuary or Keurbooms/Bitou estuary).
5.1.3  Establishment of two priority marine protected areas (MPAs) including fisheries co-
management arrangements in the Kogelberg MPA (Kogelberg Marine Park, and
Stilbaai/Jongensfontein MPA, Goukamma robbery, De Hoop).
Establishment of protected areas may result in a number of impacts which may trigger both the
SA EIA regulations and the World Bank safeguards.
Typical impacts that might arise from the establishment of conservation areas include:
*  Loss of agricultural land and productivity due to acquisition of land for key conservation
sites;
*  Restrictions on, or loss of access to, resources for communities living on the affected land,
thus affecting livelihoods;
*  Impacts associated  with  upgrading  and/or construction  of tourism  facilities and
infrastructure (e.g. aesthetic impacts, change in sense of place, temporary impacts from the
construction process (dust, noise, erosion, etc);
*  Increased demand for limited resources such as water, leading to secondary and/or
cumulative impacts in a wider area (e.g. need for water reservoirs etc);
*  Impacts associated with resort or lodge development; and
*  Changes in habitat due to the re-introduction and active management of fauna.
17



These potential impacts are, however, usually accompanied by the many beneficial impacts
associated with the establishment of protected areas. These are described in the specialist
reports compiled for each component.
The CAPE Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) indicates that certain social impacts may take
place which could trigger the requirements of the World Bank Involuntary Resettlement
Procedure BP4.12. The four key areas of intervention that could have involuntary resettlement
impacts are identified as being:
*  possible physical relocation of people for mega-reserve consolidation;
*  acquisition of land for key sites;
*  change of land use resulting in job and accommodation impacts; and
*  restriction of access to natural resources.
The impacts of these interventions are described in the CAPE RPF which must therefore be read
in conjunction with this ESMF. As noted previously, the SA EIA Regulations do not explicitly list
activities that are likely to trigger social impacts. It does not list activities such as consolidation
of parks, declaration of protected areas, restriction of access to conservation areas, or changing
management arrangements, all of which could have social impacts. The CAPE RPF will therefore
play a significant role in ensuring that social impacts arising from these types of activities will be
assessed. However, where the SA EIA procedures are triggered, consideration of social impacts
is required in terms of NEMA principles.
It is not clear at this stage what activities will take place during the establishment/consolidation
of protected areas that might trigger the requirement for environmental assessments. Listed
activities that are most likely to take place and will require an environmental assessment in
terms of the SA EIA regulations are:
* The construction, erection or upgrading of roads, railways, airfields and associated
structures;
*  Public and private resorts and associated infrastructure.
Other listed activities which may trigger the SA EIA process are:
The construction, erection or upgrading of:
1. marinas, harbours and all structures below the high-water mark of the sea and marinas,
harbours and associated structures on inland waters;
2. above ground cableways and associated structures;
3. structures associated with communication networks;
4. canals and channels, including structures causing disturbances to the flow of water in a river
bed, and water transfer schemes between water catchments and impoundments;
5. dams, levees and weirs affecting the flow of a river;
6. reservoirs for public water supply;
18



7. schemes for the abstraction or utilization of ground or surface water for bulk supply
purposes;
8. sewage treatment plants and associated infrastructure; and
9. the disposal of waste as defined in section 20 of the ECA, excluding domestic waste, but
including the establishment, expansion, upgrading or closure of facilities for all waste, ashes
and building rubble.
Changes in land use that may trigger the SA EIA process are:
The change of land use from
* Use for nature conservation or zoned open space to any other land use
* Agricultural or zoned undetermined use or an equivalent zoning, to any other land use
Land use changes involving
* The cultivation or any other use of virgin ground
* The reclamation of land, including wetlands, below the high-water mark of the sea and in
inland waters
will also trigger the South African environmental assessment process.
All the above activities could trigger the various World Bank Safeguard policies listed in Table
2.1, depending on the severity of the impact, and the sensitivity of the receiving environment.
5.2   Developing sustainable management effectiveness.
This component has a variety of activities such as development of a Performance Management
System and the development of ecotourism development plans which are in themselves,
unlikely to trigger formal environmental assessment processes. It is however assumed that
environmental factors will be taken into account in the formulation of such plans. The project
description refers to mainstreaming biodiversity considerations into planning processes. In
addition, environmental and social baseline data is collected to help inform the compilation of
plans.
The activities associated with activity 5.2.3, i.e. development and implementation of plans for
responsible tourism in the Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve [including
Marine Protected Area (MPA)] and Garden Route Conservation Area (including MPA), may
require infrastructural or land use changes (as noted above) which could trigger the SA EIA
requirement. Activity 5.2.6, i.e. implementation of priority management programs in the newly
established Baviaanskloof, Cederberg and Garden Route protected areas involves actions to
reduce threats and restore impacted ecosystems while ensuring that local communities benefit
through the establishment of SMMEs. The priority activities include invasive alien clearing,
communication services, boundary demarcation and upgrading existing conservation
management infrastructure. Of these, communication services and upgrading of conservation
management infrastructure may trigger environmental assessment processes, depending on the
nature and scale of the activities. Activities such as alien clearing are unlikely to trigger
19



environmental assessments. Such activities are carried out according to the implementing
agencies' Standard Operating Procedures, which have a built in environmental control
component. The above activities may, however, result in social impacts. These would need to
be addressed by the CAPE RPF.
Component 6 of the programme, i.e. Identifying and Securing Terrestrial Biodiversity in Key
Sites largely involves finer scale conservation planning and mainstreaming biodiversity concerns
into land use planning and decision-making. No negative impacts are expected from
implementing activities associated with this component. Activity 6.3.1, piloting of co-operative
management schemes in priority areas is likely to bring about social and ecological impacts
(largely beneficial), but is unlikely to trigger the environmental assessment process. The nature
of the impacts cannot be predicted at this early stage.
Component 7, Improving Watershed Management and Water Resource Management, involves
assisting provincial conservation agencies to work with Catchment Management Agencies to set
up strategic plans, management tools and monitoring systems which give full weight to
biodiversity concerns in the Water Management Areas. The activities within this component are
largely oriented around acquisition of key information that will improve management of
catchment areas, invasive alien species, and estuaries. This information gathering and
dissemination process itself will not trigger the SA environmental assessment process, although
the actual implementation of the management approaches (e.g. the estuarine management
program) is likely to have beneficial impacts. No international waters are affected.
Packages of Investment activities
It is possible that the implementing agencies will aggregate site-level investments into larger
packages to minimize the transaction costs for obtaining EA authorization and for managing
construction and the implementation of EMPs (as is proposed in the Greater Addo National
Park). This should improve the efficiency and practicality of the South African EIA authorization
and implementation process. It should also assist the authorities to gain a sense of the
cumulative effect of the various activities. It is recommended that the authorities be made fully
aware of the full scale and context of the proposed activities in order that the cumulative effects
be taken into account.
Concluding statement
From the above analysis, it would appear that the South African environmental assessment
legislation, in particular the EIA regulations, in combination with requirements of specific laws
such as the NHRA, will trigger the necessary environmental assessment procedures, although
the World Bank Safeguard policies listed in Table 1 will need to be consulted. These
environmental assessments will also need to take social factors into account. Activities that may
result in social impacts but do not trigger EA procedures in terms of South Africa's legal frame
20



work, will need to be addressed in terms of the CAPE RPF. The World Bank Resettlement Policy
Framework will also ensure that social factors are addressed.
21



3. DESCRIPTION AND DISCUSSION OF WORLD BANK AND SOUTH AFRICAN EA
PROCEDURES
3.1   The South African and World Bank EA processes
The World Bank has a series of Operational Policies and Bank Procedures which specify the
Bank's requirements for addressing a variety of issues and ensuring that biophysical and social
concerns are taken into account in project planning and implementation processes. The policies
have been listed in the previous section together with the key South African legislation that will
trigger environmental assessment processes. As will be shown below, the essential elements of
the World Bank EA and SA EIA processes are very similar. The main differences are that SA EAs
are triggered by activities, whereas Bank EAs are triggered by the scale, location2 and
sensitivity3 of proposed projects. There are however changes being proposed in South African
legislation that will bring the two processes closer together, in that new Integrated
Environmental Management regulations, which are currently being drafted, will be both activity
and environment based. Thus both the type of activity and the receiving environment will be
factors that will determine whether an EA is required or not.
The other main difference between SA and World Bank procedures is the Bank requirement that
Category A projects (and sometimes Category B projects) require preparation of an
Environmental Management Programme (EMP). In South Africa, this is not a requirement,
although it is often specified as being a condition of project approval in the authority's Record
of Decision. EA's in SA are required to specify mitigation and monitoring procedures within the
EIA report.
From the analysis carried out, it appears that most, if not all CAPE activities, that are likely to
have a significant environmental impact, and would trigger World Bank safeguards, would also
trigger the SA EIA requirements. In many cases, it is very likely that only a Scoping process will
be required and not a full EIA. The Scoping process would lead to a Record of Decision, that
would include various conditions of approval. It is very likely that one of these conditions of
approval would be the compilation and implementation of an EMP.
Table 3.1 below and Figure 2 summarise the South African and World Bank EA processes. The
discussion notes identify the key differences between the two EA processes.
2In terms of World Bank BP 4.01, "location" refers to proximity to or encroachment on environmentally important
areas such as wetlands, forests or other natural habitats.
3 "Sensitivity" refers to projects that may have irreversible impacts, affect vulnerable ethnic minorities, involve in
voluntary resettlement or affect cultural heritage sites.
22



Table 3.1     Description  and  comparison   of South   African  and  World   Bank   EA
processes
SOUTH AFRICA (National EIA process)            WORLD BANK
Note: The details of the processes vary between the
different provinces
Screening and Scoping                          Screening and Scoping
1. The project proponent (PP) submits an application  1. The task team (TT) examines the location,
to the relevant Provincial authority for any activity  sensitivity and scale of the proposed project
listed in Schedule 1 of the EIA regulations (as   as well as the nature and magnitude of its
amended) (See Appendix 1). There may be a pre-    potential impacts.
application consultation (depending on province  2. At the earliest stage of the project cycle,
concerned - it is discouraged in the Western      the TT assigns the proposed project to one
Cape).                                            of 4 categories, reflecting the potential risks
2. Authority reviews application and may request a   associated with the project.
Plan of Study for Scoping                  These categories are:
3. Authority reviews and accepts or rejects Scoping A: Project is likely to have significant adverse
study plan. If accepted, Scoping proceeds and  environmental impacts. Borrower will be required to
Scoping report is produced.                produce comprehensive EIA (or regional or sectoral
4. Scoping report is reviewed by authority and  EA) which
interested and affected parties and is accepted or  .  Examines impacts (+ve & -ve)
rejected.                                         .  Compares    them    with   feasible
5. If accepted, it is determined whether the Scoping     alternatives  (including  no  project
report provides sufficient information to make a     option)
decision. If there are issues and alternatives that  .  Recommends measures for prevention,
need further investigation, an Environmental         minimization,     mitigation    or
Impact Assessment is required.                       compensation.
B: Projects that are less adverse than those of
category A projects. Impacts likely to be site-
specific, few are expected to be irreversible and
mitigation measures are relatively easy to design.
Scope of EA may be narrower than for an A
classified project. Basic content follows same format
as A classified project.
C. Projects that are likely to have minimal or no
adverse environmental impacts
Fl. Projects that involve investment of Bank funds
through a financial intermediary, in subprojects that
may result in adverse environmental impacts.
23



FIGURE 2: COMPARISON OF SA EIA AND WB EA PROCEDURES
SA EIA Procedures                                                 WB EA Procedures
Pre-application consultation                           Task Team examines location, sensitivity and scale of
IV T             ,proposed project & nature & magnitude of potential impacts
Submit application      l__
__v                                        Task Team assigns project to Category A, B, C or Fl. Bank
<   Plan of study for Scoping  >                    determines what kind of EA required & types of EA
~tS   Public Participation  S                         instruments to use & advises borrower of Bank's
REVIEW     .                                Borrower prepares ToR for EA (in consultation with Bank) &
appoints Independent Experts to carry out EA
* ~~~~~Authority
<                ~~~~~~~Specialistl
*Stakeholdersll
Bank            Bank
Assessment of application                      Experts carry   Ongoing Bank advice   Comment         Comment
.~~~~~~~n i ,t FA 
<   EIA                                  Affected      Specialist       Draft     Affected Party   Final EA
(  *  Plan of study for EIR      4                   party        studies &        EA         Comment.        & EMP
\ * Public Participation          2                input to        overall   *      report   Report made
ToR        evaluation by      (&          publicly
independent EA     EMP)         available
Amen                Authority, 
,   *  Specialist                                             EA report proceeds through Bank appraisal process
*Stakeholders
*|   Final EIR      l                                       Task Team supervises project's environmental aspects
r  T             .                                                     during implementation
T        ;~  ~ Assessment of application 
Record of Decisi:on::::::)      ppro                               Implementation Completion Report (evaluates
Not Approved         Record|of Decision            Approved                           environ mental impacts & effectiveness of mitigatory
moAciiroc fAkpn
30-day Appeal Period                      f _p24



3.2   Discussion of Screening and Scoping
In the Western Cape, the Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning
(DEA&DP) have compiled a comprehensive Application Form and Screening/Scoping Checklist.
This 'Scoping'checklist allows for combination of the application and initial scoping activities. On
review of the information presented in the scoping checklist, DEA&DP may authorize the
activity, refuse the activity, or require that additional scoping tasks be undertaken . Once
sufficient information has been obtained to fulfill the requirements of the scoping stage, the
authority will make the next decision i.e. either authorize the activity, refuse it, or require that
an EIA be undertaken. In other provinces, the Scoping Report often contains substantial impact
analysis and mitigation measures (i.e. it serves as a mini EIA and frequently forms the basis for
decision-making).
As can be seen, the SA EIA regulations are largely currently triggered by specific activities (see
Appendix 1 or Table 3.2). Integrated Environmental Management regulations, which will flesh
out section 24 of NEMA are currently being drafted. They will replace the existing EIA
regulations. It is envisaged that they will be both activity and environment based. Thus the
extent to which they are triggered will depend both upon the type of proposed activity and the
receiving environment. This will bring the South African regulations in alignment with World
Bank processes.
The process of screening in World Bank procedures is relatively simple compared to South
Africa in that only Bank personnel and borrower are involved and there is no public consultation
at this stage. In contrast, the South African Screening/Scoping process requires review by
interested and affected parties. The public thus has an input as to whether the project requires
an EA of some kind or not.
Table 3.2 provides a list of the South African activities that trigger an EA and the nearest
equivalent World Bank activity with its recommended EA category. The World Bank list is
however, a guide and can include other types of projects, whereas the South African list is fixed
until modified through a legislative process.
The main differences between the two lists that are most likely to be relevant to the projects
associated with the CAPE project are the World Bank inclusion of tourism and protected areas
and biodiversity conservation projects in Category B. Renewable energy projects (category B)
may also be relevant if this is an approach promoted in the new mega-reserves.
Another major difference is the inclusion of Resettlement in category A. It is expected that this
category will pick up and trigger assessment of many of the social issues that may be caused by
the CFR projects. The current SA regulations are relatively weak in listing activities that are
likely to have major social consequences. Social impact assessments are however generally fully
integrated into environmental impact assessments.
25



Table 3.2     SA listed activities and World Bank environmental assessment categories
Shortened description of South African listed   Typical   categorization   of   World   Bank
activities that trigger an EA (see Appendix 1 for activities (nearest equivalent to SA activity):
complete list)                                  Category A projects are in bold type
Category B projects are in italics
1. Construction, erection or uvgrading of,
Facilities for commercial electricity generation  Thermal power and hydropower development
or expansion
Electrical transmission
Rural electriflcation
Nuclear reactors and facilities
Dangerous and Hazardous substances              Hazardous waste management and disposal
Infrastructure for transporting  above substances Manufacture, transportation   and  use   of
(excluding road and rail)                       pesticides  or other    hazardous   or toxic
materials
Processing facilities for above substances
Roads, railways, airfields and associated structures  New  construction or major upgrading of
highways or rural roads
Rehabilitation or maintenance of highways or rural
roads
Marinas, harbours and all structures below HWM of Port and Harbour development
sea (including structures on inland waters)
Above ground cableways & associated structures
Structures associated with communication works
Outdoor vehicle and horse racing tracks
Canals, channels and water transfer schemes     River basin development
Watershed projects (management or rehabilitation)
Dams, levees and weirs                          Dams and reservoirs
Reservoirs for public water supply
Ground and surface water abstraction schemes for
bulk supply
Public  and   private  resorts  and  associated
infrastructure
Sewerage   treatment   plants  and    associated  Water supply   and  wastewater collection
infrastructure                                  treatment and disposal projects (large scale)
Rural water supply and sanitation
Buildings and Structures for manufacturing and
storage of explosives and ammunition
2. Change in land use from: (see also CA. P. E. RPF)
Agricultural or zoned undetermined use or an Reclamation and new land development
equivalent zoning to any other land use
Use for grazing to any other form of agricultural use
Use for nature conservation or zoned open space to
26



any other land use
3. Concentration of livestock, aquatic organisms, Aquaculture and Mariculture
poultry and game for commercial production      Agro-industries
4. Intensive husbandry or importation of declared
weeds or alien species
5. Release of organisms for pest control
6. Genetic modification of organisms
7. Reclamation of land, including wetlands, below Reclamation and new land development
HWM of sea and in inland waters
8. Disposal of waste (excluding domestic waste)
9. Scheduled processes listed in Atmospheric Pollution
Prevention Act
10. Cultivation or any other use of virgin ground  Land clearance and leveling
Energy efficiency and conservation
Irrigation, drainage and flood control
Irrigation and drainage (small scale)
Forestry production products
Protected areas and biodiversity conservation
Industrial plants (large scale)
Rehabilitation or modifcation of existing industrial
facilities (small scale)
Renewable energy (not hydroelectric dams)
Tourism
Resettlement
Mineral development, including oil and gas
Environmental Assessment and Public consultation Environmental Assessment and Public consultation
(Refer to Figure 2)
27



Scope of environmental assessments              Scope of environmental assessments
The scope of South African assessments is very similar The World Bank has a broad definition of the scope
to those of the World Bank. The South African   of EA's. EA's have to take into account the natural
definition of the environment is also similar to that of environment (air, water, land); human health and
the Bank but there is less emphasis on social and  safety, social aspects (involuntary resettlement,
transboundary  issues.  The  definition  of  the  indigenous peoples, cultural property); and trans
environment (as given in NEMA) includes the land, boundary and global environmental aspects (climate
water, atmosphere, microorganisms, plant and animal change, ozone depleting substances, pollution of
life and the interrelationships between these: it also international waters and  adverse impacts on
includes the physical, chemical, aesthetic and cultural biodiversity). The general definition of the areas
properties and conditions of the foregoing that that must be covered by EA's is more broadly
influence human health and well being.          defined in World Bank policy.
NEMA's principles do however emphasise the
requirement for integration of social economic and
environmental factors.
Environmental Assessment Process                Environmental Assessment Process
1. The relevant authorities will usually request a  1. The borrower appoints independent EA
Plan of Study for an EIA.                       experts to carry out the EA. For highly risky
2. Once   the  Plan  of Study  is approved         or contentious projects the borrower also
consultants are appointed by the proponent      engages an advisory panel.
to carry out the EIA.                       2. The Bank advises the borrower on the
3. The EIA report is reviewed by interested and    Bank's EA requirements. The Bank will
affected parties and the authorities            determine what type of EA is required and
4. The EIA is either accepted or rejected by the   applies one or more of them as required.
authorities                                 3. The   Bank   reviews  the  findings  and
5. If accepted, a Record of Decision is issued,    recommendations of the EA to see if all
listing conditions of approval (or alternatively  requirements are met and proceeds to send
reasons for disapproval of the project).       the report through the Banks various
6. There is an appeal process if the proponent or  appraisal and authorizing channels.
interested parties wish to challenge the final
decision
28



Public Participation                            Public Participation
Public participation is an integral part of the entire EA  The borrower is required to consult project affected
process in SA and is initiated in the Scoping Phase  groups and  local NGO's about the  projects
when I&APs are 'scoped' about the issues that should  environmental aspects and take their views into
be addressed in the EA. Selection of the Public account. The borrower initiates these consultations
consultation process /instruments depends on the  as early as possible. Consultation usually takes place
nature of the project and what the provincial DEAT  at least twice i.e shortly after environmental
determines as minimum   requirements. In some   screening and before the terms of reference for the
projects this just involves giving information to I&APs, EA are finalized and then once the draft EA is
and then allowing opportunities for them to comment. prepared. Borrowers are required  to  provide
In others, there are much more intensive public information to the project affected groups timeously
involvement processes. The public comment on both in a format accessible to the groups being
the Scoping and EIA reports. Reports are usually consulted. Reports are made available in public
placed in public venues as well as made electronically  places accessible to affected groups and local
available. The early public involvement process usually  NGO's.
allows the public to have a say in the type, scope and
terms of reference of an EIA.
Environmental Management Plans, mitlgation and  Envlronmental Management Plans, mitigation and
monitoring                                      monitoring
South African legislation does not specifically require The Bank requires the formulation of an EMP for all
the preparation of an EMP. Mitigation and monitoring  category A projects. For category B projects, the
measures must be set out in the EIA. The decision- Concept Review decides whether an EMP will be
making authorities do, however, frequently require required.
the compilation of an EMP as a condition of project
approval. This condition is usually set out in the
Record of Decision.
Monitoring of project implementation            Monitoring of project implementation
Currently, the  provincial authorities are  under The Bank requires the borrower to report on
capacitated to monitor the extent to which mitigation  compliance with measures agreed with the Bank on
and monitoring procedures are put in place and the  the basis of the findings and results of the EA,
extent to which conditions of the Record of Decision  including implementation of any EMP as set out in
are implemented. Records of Decision may make   the project documents, the status of mitigatory
reporting requirements a condition of approval, measures and the findings of monitoring programs.
obliging the proponent to report back on his/her Monitoring of borrower performance is undertaken
performance. NGOs and interested and affected   by the Task Team.
parties  play  a  significant  role in  reporting
infringements.
29



3.3 Discussion of the EA and Public Consultation Processes
3.3.1 Scope of EA
Interested and affected parties play a more active role in determining the scope and terms of reference for
EIA's in South Africa, in that they can make their input at the screening/scoping stage. This stage determines
the scope and TOR for the EA. The authorities can influence the scope and TOR of the EA through approving
or disapproving the plan of study for the Scoping and EIA processes and participating in the public
involvement processes.
In the World Bank process, affected parties and NGO's can comment on the scope of the EA and the TOR for
the EA, but only after initial screening and project categorization has taken place. This is slightly different to
the South African process. The Bank plays a greater role in the screening, categorization and terms of
reference process than the South African process, where a wider range of parties is involved.
3.3.2 EA Tools
South Africa has tended to focus on conventional EIA processes and tools. The new EA regulations (to be
promulgated later this year) are expected to encourage use of a wider range of assessment tools. The Bank
seems to encourage use of a wider range of assessment tools, according to the needs and type of project
(e.g. risk and hazard analysis, sectoral or regional EA, cost benefit analysis etc)
3.3.3 Public involvement
Public involvement processes are very variable for both Bank and South African processes. The range of
people consulted seems, however to be wider in South Africa - i.e. interested (and not only affected) parties
are consulted. The Bank requires that affected parties and NGO's be timeously consulted, using appropriate
methods. The same applies in South Africa. Furthermore, there is less use of advisory panels in South Africa
(although this may just be a function of the nature of the projects undertaken to date)
Guidelines for involving interested and affected parties in the EIA process are currently being prepared. In
addition, a document has been prepared for the CAPE CFR project which describes the participation
principles and approaches to be followed in any CAPE programme. These documents provide the necessary
guidance for ensuring meaningful public involvement.
3.3.4. EMPs
The South African EIA Regulations do not specify the need to prepare an EMP. Mitigation and monitoring
actions are set out in the EIA report. In contrast, the Bank requires that EMPs be prepared for category A
projects and sometimes for category B projects.
30



Table 3.3    Content   requirements   for   World   Bank   EMP   and   mitigation   and
monitoring component of SA EIA report
World Bank EMP                             South African EIA
Identify and summarise predicted adverse Summary of all Significant Impacts
environmental & social impacts for which
mitigation is required
Description  of feasible  and  cost effective  Description of mitigation options
mitigation measures
Description of monitoring programme designed  Mitigation  proposals cover activity  until
to ensure mitigation measures are implemented  decommissioning
and have the intended result
Define institutional arrangements, roles and  (Implied, not specified)
responsibilities for implementing mitigation and
monitoring and coordination arrangements
Specify implementation schedule and reporting  Implementation  Schedule  not  directly
procedures related to timing, frequency, and  specified.
duration of mitigation measures, showing links to
project implementation plan
Specify cost estimates and sources of funds for Cost implications for government, public and
initial investment and recurring expenses for developer may be included. No requirement
implementing all measures contained in the EMP  to do so.
Specify training required for personnel involved  Proposals for training requirements may be
in implementing EMP                        provided (not required).
Consultation (process followed)
Legal considerations                       Legal requirements and implications
3.4    Concluding Comments
The essential elements of the EA process in South Africa are very similar to World Bank EA
requirements and there should be no major conflicts. The main differences lie in the Banks
greater role in screening and project categorization, and ultimately EA report review, approval
and monitoring as well as the Banks requirement for EMPs in category A and some category B
projects. There may also be some differences in the extent of public involvement, with the Bank
requiring greater focus on affected parties and NGOs as opposed to involvement of the wider
general public in South Africa. Currently, the Bank encourages use of a wider range of EA tools
in the EA process than is the case in South Africa. It also recommends use of advisory panels in
contentious projects.
As most of the CFR projects involve planning, acquisition of land, organization and
dissemination of information as well as capacity building, there will be relatively few direct
discernible impacts on the physical environment. Most of the impacts envisaged are likely to be
beneficial and should evolve out of improved management of the environment that will be
created through the various projects. Implementing agencies will be required to undertake
31



environmental planning, using their own procedures and tools (e.g. environmental baseline data
collection) which should minimize the need for full project specific EIAs. Such processes are
likely to take place outside of any formal legislated environmental assessment framework.
32



4.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
In general terms, the South African EA legislative requirements and procedures address the
requirements of the World Bank and the two processes can, to a large extent, be aligned (see
Section 3). However, as discussed in Section 2, the SA EA system is activity-based, and does
not screen projects in terms of the location of the project or sensitivity of the receiving
environment (both in terms of natural environmental processes and cultural attributes/sites).
Thus it is possible, although unlikely, that certain CAPE activities or investment packages would
not be subject to SA EA procedures but would trigger World Bank Environmental Assessment
policies and procedures. It is possible, although unlikely, that World Bank Operational Policies
relevant to Forests, Cultural Resources and Natural Habitats could be relevant. It is likely that
with the promulgation of the revised EIA regulations, the National Environmental Management:
Biodiversity Act and the Protected Area Act, these potential gaps in the South African EA
process will be filled such that World Bank safeguards will be fully complied with. However, in
the interim, the framework developed addresses these potential gaps and ensures that World
Bank requirements are fully met.
A further consideration in developing the ESMF was the fact that certain CAPE programme
activities would result in social impacts which in terms of the SA system, would not necessarily
trigger the SA EIA process but could trigger World Bank Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard
Policy (OP/BP 4.12). To address these social concerns, a separate CAPE Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) has been developed to address the needs and concerns of local people who
may be affected by the CAPE programme. This RPF needs to be read in conjunction with the
ESMF.
Except for the requirement to prepare an EMP for all category A and some category B World
Bank projects, the EA procedures of the two countries are aligned (refer Figure 2). Thus,
whether the activity triggers either the SA EIA regulations or the World Bank safeguards, a
slightly modified SA EIA procedure should be followed. Implementing the SA EIA procedures
with slight amendments as shown in Figure 3, will fully comply with all World Bank
requirements. The key issue becomes the screening process; determining whether CAPE project
activities or packages of investment will trigger EA procedures, World Bank safeguard policies
and procedures and/or the Resettlement Policy Framework. Once this is determined, the
applicant would either proceed with the expanded SA EIA process (see Figure 3), or the
procedures required in terms of the RPF or alternatively, not be required to go through any
assessment process.
Figure 3, read in conjunction with Table 4, provides an overview of the ESMF for this CAPE
programme. Table 4 provides an overview of the activities likely to result in environmental and
social impacts and an indication of which World Bank policies and procedures would be
triggered. Figure 3, provides an overview of the detailed EA process that would need to be
followed, namely, the expanded SA EIA process, as well as the responsibilities of the various
33



agencies with respect to preparing the EIA and obtaining approval from both the SA
government and the World Bank.
34



FIGURE 3: EA PROCEDURE FOR CAPE ACTIVITIES
|   CAPE ACTIVITY         l
|  FollowExpanded SA EIAProcedures     ||Responsible Agents
Pre-application consultation                                 Executing agents (e.g. SANParks, WCNCB, WF) Notify CCU of
v                                                 outcome & process
Submit application
Executing agents/appointed consultant
Plan of study for Scoping                                                                             Note2: Certain
*t   Public Participation   )                                                                      executing
\   ,;rnninn Ppnnrt      /                               Appointed consultant/executing agent2   agents are
permitted to
REVIEW                                                                                       undertake an
.  Authority                                                                                    EIA or part
*  Specialist                                                                                   thereof (e.g.
*  Stakeholders                                        Provincial Environmental Department      scoping report)
r  t                ,                             Independent Review Consultant2          in house.
Assessment of application       lHowever, they
are required to
appoint an
*  Plan of study for EIR                                                  Provincial Environmental Department      independent
<   *  Public Participation                     S                      (Notify CCU & WB if full EIA required)  review
  FnvimnranmPnfl Tmn;;rt RPnnrt (FTPR (P. FMP)                                                                consultant to
check the
REVIEW                                                                                      adequacy,
4  ;   5Authaoarlijtsyt                               Appointed consultant/Executing agent'   accuracy &
*Stakeholders
*|     ~Final EIR &EMPl
v                                                 Provincial Environmental Department
Asessment of application
Independent Review Consultant
ot Approved         ~~~Record of Decision            Approved
1,                             ~~~~~~~~~~Appointed consultant/executing agent2
.  .  ,       Conditi~nons oAproval
Note': All CAPE activities which trigger SA EIA  30-day            TmnImont FMPc'
procedures but fall into World Bank Project Category - Appeal                               PFovincial or National ERviFental Department
A and in some instances category B, require an EMP.  Period            35



FIGURE 4: LIKELY EA SCENARIO
|   CAPE ACTIVITY          l
|  Follow Expanded SA EIA   |                                  |          Responsible Agents
,                                                                     IV
Pre-application consultation                                   Executing agents e.g. SANParks, WCNCB, WF (Notify CCU &
v                                                  World Bank of outcome & process)
Submit application
v                '                                 Executing agents/appointed consultant
Pan of study for Scoping
~(<   Public Participation  S                              Appointed consultant &/or
;r,rninn Ppnnrt Pv FMP
Independent Review Consultant
REVIEW
\       * ~~~~Authority
<  Amend ) <       *   Specialist
Stakeholders                                             Provincial Environmental Department
Independent Review Consultant'
IFinal Scoping Report (& EMP)|
Assessment of application                                     Appointed consultant/Executing agent2
Not Approved            Record of Decision     4-       Approved                   Provincial or National Environmental Department
Cnitions of Approval                Provincial or National Environmental Department (Submit to
30peay                     Tmnlpmpnt FMP      -              World Bank for approval & CCU for information)
Period                                                      Note': Where executing agents are permitted to undertake the EIA
or part thereof (e.g. scoping report) in house, since they have the
Note': All CAPE activities which trigger SA EIA procedures but                        expertise and do not have the resources to appoint an independent
fall into World Bank Project Category A, or in some instances                          consultant for every EA. However, they are required to appoint an
category B, require an EMP.                                                            independent review consultant to check the adequacy, accuracy &
36



I



TABLE 4.1: ESMF SCREENING TABLE
CAPE Activity & Impacts         SA EIA regulation   National       World Bank category A &     World       Bank   Resettlement
listed activities    Heritage       B projects                  Operational       Policy
Resources      Screening         category  Policy            Framework
Act            examples
1. Institutional strengthening
(Positive impacts)
2. Conservation Education
(Positive impacts)
3. Establish foundations of the
biodiversity economy
(Positive impacts)
4. Program         Coordination,
Management & Monitoring
(Positive impacts)
5. Unleashing the potential of
protected areas
5.1 Establishing & consolidating
key protected areas.
POTENTIAL IMPACTS COMMON TO ALL AREAS
(Baviaanskloof, Cedarberg, Garden Route Conservation Initiative) (including establishment of Marine Protected Areas & freshwater &
estuarine protected areas)
38



CAPE Activity & Impacts         SA EIA regulation   National       World Bank category A &     World       Bank   Resettlement
listed activities    Heritage       B projects                  Operational       Policy
Resources      Screening         category  Policy             Framework
Act            examples
a) Loss of agricultural land &  1. Change in land use              Land clearance & leveling.  OP4.01             Yes
productivity                from  agricultural or                                           Environmental
underdetermined  or                                             Assessment
an equivalent use to
any other land use.
2. Cultivation or any
other use of virgin
ground.
b) Restriction to or loss of access                                                            BP4.12             Yes
to resources & areas (social                                                                Involuntary
impacts) (e.g. impacts on jobs                                                              Resettlement
& accommodation)                                                                            OP4.36
Forests
c) Impacts    associated  with Roads,               Yes, possibly   New  construction or major OP4.36             Yes
upgrading or construction of communication                      upgrading  of highways or Forests
infrastructure              works,      airfields,              rural roads (A)             BP4.04
railways                            Rehabilitation or maintenance  Natural Habitats
of highways or rural roads (B)  OP4.11
Cultural Property
39



CAPE Activity & Impacts         SA EIA regulation   National       World Bank category A &     World       Bank   Resettlement
listed activities    Heritage       B projects                  Operational       Policy
Resources      Screening         category  Policy            Framework
Act            examples
d) Resort development or impacts 1. Public & Private  Yes, possibly  Tourism (B)                OP4.36            Yes
associated with setting up of resorts & associated                                          Forests
SMME's                      infrastructure.                     Water supply & wastewater
2.        Sewerage                  collection projects (A)     BP4.04
treatment plants &                                              Natural habitats
associated                          Rural   water   supply   &
infrastructure.                     sanitation (B)              OP4.11
3. Changes in land                                              Cultural Property
use.
e) Positive   benefits   from                                       Protected areas & biodiversity  OP4.36
protected areas & biodiversity                                  conservation (B)            Forests
conservation                                                                                BP4.04
Natural Habitats
40



CAPE Activity & Impacts         SA EIA regulation   National       World Bank category A &     World       Bank   Resettlement
listed activities    Heritage       B projects                  Operational       Policy
Resources      Screening         category  Policy            Framework
Act            examples
f) Cumulative   &    secondary  1. Reservoirs, dams, Yes, possibly  Dams & reservoirs (A)       OP4.36
impacts   from    increased  levees, weirs.                                                 Forests
development, eg. increased 2. Ground & surface                  Water supply & wastewater
demand for water or waste water abstraction for                 collection projects (A)     BP4.04
disposal facilities         bulk supply.                                                    Natural Habitats
3.    Establishment,                Rural   water   supply   &
expansion, upgrading                sanitation (B)              OP4.11
or closure of facilities                                        Cultural Property
for all waste, ashes &
building rubble.
4.        Sewerage
treatment plants &
associated
infrastructure.
5.2 Developing Sustainable Management Effectiveness
5.2.3 Develop & implement plans  1. Change in land use  Yes, possibly  Tourism (B)              OP4.36            Yes
for responsible tourism in: (i)  & or cultivation or                                            Forests
Cedarberg                       any  other use   of                 Energy     efficiency   &   BP4.04
(ii) Baviaanskloof             virgin land (as for                 conservation (B)            Natural Habitats
(iii) Kogelberg Biosphere      impact).
reserve including MPA          2. The construction,                                            OP4.11
(iv) Garden Route              upgrading        of                                             Cultural Property
conservation area              structures below the
including MPA.                 high water mark of
the sea.
6. Identifying & securing biodiversity in priority areas
41



CAPE Activity & Impacts        SA EIA regulation   National       World Bank category A &    World      Bank   Resettlement
listed activities   Heritage       B projects                 Operational       Policy
Resources      Screening        category  Policy            Framework
Act            examples
6.2 Integrating biodiversity in
land   use   decision-making
(Positive benefits)
6.3  Increasing   landowners   1. Changes in land                                            0P4.36
commitment to conservation     use                                                           Forests
6.3.1 Build extension service &  2.  Infrastructure                                          BP4.04
pilot  cooperative  management development                                                   Natural Habitats
schemes                                                                                      OP4. 11
Cultural Property
7.   Integrating  biodiversity
concerns   into    watershed
management
(Positive impacts)
7.3    Improving     estuarine
management
(Positive impacts)
42



I                    I



However, in view of the development objectives of the CAPE programme and the overall focus
on enhancing biodiversity and strengthening institutional capacity to manage biodiversity in the
CFR, it is unlikely that the activities listed in Table 4 will result in a requirement to undertake
the expanded SA EIA procedure (Figure 3). A more likely scenario is that an activity may trigger
the need for some level of environmental assessment and that a scoping exercise will be
required to identify issues and impacts and if necessary identify measures to mitigate impacts.
In terms of this scenario, it is likely that the final scoping report, together with an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), will constitute the information required for
authorization. This process is outlined in Figure 4.
This ESMF seeks to provide the Bank, the management agents, and in particular, the executing
agents with clear guidance on what procedures to follow should CAPE activities trigger SA EIA
procedures and/or World Bank Safeguard Policies and Procedures. The emphasis has been on
providing a framework that streamlines the various procedures through development of an
integrated framework that meets all the requirements and clearly guides the executing agency
to the correct procedure for gaining project approval.
44



5.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY AND COMMITMENT
Institutional arrangements for the management and implementation of the CAPE programme
are broadly outlined in section 1. Institutional capacity to implement the ESMF differs
considerably across the institutions. While most of the major executing agents have the skills
and expertise to apply the ESMF, the key constraint revolves around the capacity to effectively
execute their functions in view of ongoing restructuring, staff losses (particularly senior,
experienced staff) and limited financial and human resources.
Two of the major implementing agencies, the SANParks and WCNCB are relatively highly
capacitated, well resourced organizations and have considerable experience in SA EIA processes
and requirements (although both face operational constraints within the current legislative
framework and income streams to support operational costs). The Provincial Environmental
departments, responsible for authorizing EIAs and advising those undertaking EIA, have
differential capacity. DEA&DP is relatively well resourced and capacitated with a dedicated
Environmental Management Department, and has considerable experience in EIA. The Eastern
Cape Department of Economic Affairs, Environment and Tourism (DEAE&T), on the other hand,
is poorly resourced and capacitated and considerable CAPE programme support and resources
will need to be directed to them to address these shortcomings. However, the appointment of
the Wilderness Foundation (WF), on a 3-year contract, as the Baviaanskloof Mega-reserve
implementing agency, should greatly alleviate these capacity constraints.
Recent restructuring of many of the key implementing agencies (in particular SANParks and
WCNCB) has also provided an opportunity to address capacity shortcomings through for
example, the outsourcing of certain functions and the adoption of co-management approaches
which involve partnerships with resource users and other stakeholders.
It is important to note that one of the key development objectives of the CAPE programme is to
enhance capacity and cooperation amongst participating institutions to develop a foundation for
mainstreaming biodiversity into planning and development activities in the CFR. Consequently,
the first component of this programme is concerned with strengthening institutional capacity
and inter-agency cooperation as well as the alignment of conservation activities amongst
participating institutions. Furthermore, component 2 deals with enhancing environmental
awareness generally, whilst component 4 focuses on enhancing management capacity and
improving communication amongst all CAPE programme participating agencies.
Thus despite the existing constraints within selected institutions, implementation of the various
sub-components of this programme will focus on addressing these capacity issues. Already,
through the process of developing the CAPE 2000 Strategy, significant progress has been made
in improving coordination in biodiversity management in the CFR, and institutional changes
have been initiated to incorporate relevant aspects of the CAPE strategy into the plans and
strategies of participating institutions.
45



In view of the shared vision and collective capabilities of the network of organizations involved
in managing and implementing the CAPE program, it is envisaged that where capacity
constraints are identified, the necessary resources and support will be provided.
Finally, it is recommended that information on the ESMF, and its application, be included in the
capacity building and skills development programmes proposed. In addition, the executing
agents in consultation with the CCU and World Bank representative, should agree on a
communication and reporting process, to ensure that the CCU, CIC and CCC are all kept
informed of projects requiring EA procedures and the outcomes of such processes.
46



6.    PUBLIC CONSULTATION
6.1   Disclosure during ESMF formulation
The disclosure/ public participation process has comprised the following activities:
*    Distribution of the pre-draft document to representatives of key executing agencies
including SANParks, WCNCB, MCM, DEA&DP, Wilderness Foundation and DWAF.
These are all of the agencies who could be responsible for implementing the RPF;
*    A workshop with representatives of key executing agencies to assess appropriateness of
and buy in to the ESMF (and RPF and PF) (30 September 2003);
*    Review in terms of the C.A.P.E. Participatory Framework;
*    Adjustments to pre draft documents (21 - 29 October 2003); and,
*    Disclosure to the World Bank (30 October 2003).
These activities will be followed by:
*    Placement of the draft RPF and ESMF, that has been cleared in principle by the World
Bank, in libraries across the CFR, in visitor centres in major parks, and in electronic format
on the C.A.P.E. website;
*    Notification to C.A.P.E. stakeholders of the availability of the draft ESMF and RPF/PF, and
inviting them to comment;
*    Provision of a 2 week comment period;
*    Collation of comments and revision of the draft ESMF and RPF as appropriate;
*    Submission to World Bank for final approval; and,
*    Release into public domain.
A list of individuals and institutions consulted during this process and comments received from
them is available from the CCU.
6.2   Public participation during ESMF implementation
All public participation takes place in terms of the ESMF should follow the Policy and guidelines
for public participation that are set out in C.A.P.E.'s participatory framework, and appended in
Appendix 2.
47



APPENDIX 1
Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (Updated 3 July 2002)
Government Notice No. R. 1182
Government Gazette No.18261, Pretoria, 5 September 1997
ENVIRONMENT CONSERVATION ACT, 1989 (ACT No. 73 OF 1989)
THE IDENTIFICATION UNDER SECTION 21 OF ACTIVMES WHICH MAY HAVE A
SUBSTANTIAL DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
[Amended by GN R 1355 of 1997-10-17, GN R 448 of 1998-03-27, GN R 670 of 2002-05-10 and GN
R 782 of 2002-06-07]
I, Zweledinga Pallo Jordan, Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, after consultation with
the Minister of each department of State responsible for the execution, approval or control of such
activities, the Minister of Finance and the competent authorities of the provinces, hereby under
section 21 of the Environment Conservation Act, 1989 (Act No. 73 of 1989), identify the activities in
Schedule 1 in general as activities which may have a substantial detrimental effect on the
environment.
I further determine that this notice will commence in respect of different activities on the dates
indicated in Schedule 2: Provided that this notice is not applicable to an activity that was
commenced with before the date of commencement fixed in respect of that activity as indicated in
the said Schedule.
Z. P. JORDAN
Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism
SCHEDULE 1
1. The construction, erection or upgrading of-
(a) facilities for commercial electricity generation with an output of at least 10 megawatts and
infrastructure for bulk supply;
(b) nuclear reactors and facilities for the production, enrichment, processing, reprocessing, storage
or disposal of nuclear fuels and wastes;
(c) with regard to any substance which is dangerous or hazardous and is controlled by national
legislation-
(i) infrastructure, excluding road and rails, for the transportation of any such substance; and
(ii) manufacturing, storage, handling, treatment or processing facilities for any such substance;
(d) roads, railways, airfields and associated structures;
(e) marinas, harbours and all structures below the high-watermark of the sea and marinas,
harbours and associated structures on inland waters;
(f) above ground cableways and associated structures;
48



(g) structures associated with communication networks, including masts, towers and reflector
dishes, marine telecommunication lines and cables and access roads leading to those
structures, but not including above ground and underground telecommunication lines and
cables and those reflector dishes used exclusively for domestic purposes;
(h) racing tracks for motor-powered vehicles and horse racing. But not including indoor tracks;
(i) canals and channels, including structures causing disturbances to the flow of water in a river
bed, and water transfer schemes between water catchments and impoundments;
(j) dams, levees and weirs affecting the flow of a river;
(k) reservoirs for public water supply;
(I) schemes for the abstraction or utilisation of ground or surface water for bulk supply purposes;
(m) public and private resorts and associated infrastructure;
(n) sewerage treatment plants and associated infrastructure;
(o) buildings and structures for industrial, commercial and military manufacturing and storage of
explosives or ammunition or for testing or disposal of such explosives or ammunition
2. The change of land use from-
(a) .;
(b) .
(c) agricultural or zoned undetermined use or an equivalent zoning to any other land use;
(d) use for grazing to any other form of agricultural use; and
(e) use for nature conservation or zoned open space to any other land use.
3. The concentration of livestock, aquatic organisms, poultry and game in a confined structure for
the purpose of commercial production, including aquaculture and mariculture.
4. The intensive husbandry of, or importation of, any plant or animal that has been declared a
weed or an invasive alien species.
5. The release of any organism outside its natural area of distribution that is to be used for
biological pest control.
6. The genetic modification of any organism with the purpose of fundamentally changing the
inherent characteristics of that organism.
7. The reclamation of land, including wetlands, below the high-water mark of the sea, and in
inland waters.
8. The disposal of waste as defined in section 20 of the Act, excluding domestic waste, but
including the establishment, expansion, upgrading or closure of facilities for all waste, ashes
and building rubble.
9. Scheduled processes listed in the Second Schedule to the Atmospheric Pollution Prevention Act,
1965 (Act No. 45 of 1965).
49



10. The cultivation or any other use of virgin ground.
11. In these Regulations, unless the context indicates otherwise -
"relevant authority" means a relevant authority as defined in regulation 1 of Government Notice No.
R.1183 of 5 September 1997, as amended by Government Notice No. R. 1645 of 5 December 1998;
"road" means -
(a) any road determined to be a national road in terms of section 40 of the South African
National Roads Agency Limited and National Roads Act, 1998 (Act No. 7 of 1998), including
any part of such road;
(b) any road for which a fee is charged for the use thereof;
(c) any provincial road administered by a provincial authority;
(d) any arterial road or major collector street administered by a metropolitan or local authority;
(e) any road or track in an area protected by legislation for the conservation of biological
diversity or archaeological, architectural or cultural sites or an area that has been zoned
open space or an equivalent zoning; or
(f) any road or track in an area regarded by the relevant authority as a sensitive area.
"upgrading" means the expansion beyond its existing size, volume or capacity of an existing facility,
installation or other activity referred to in this Schedule, but does not include regular or routine
maintenance and the replacement of inefficient or old plant, equipment or machinery where such
does not have an increased detrimental effect on the environment;
"virgin ground" means land which has at no time during the preceding 10 years been cultivated.
SCHEDULE 2
Item number in Schedule 1  Date of commencement
1 (a) (b) (d) (e) (f) (h) (m); 7  8 September 1997
1 (g) (o); 3; 4; 5; 6     5 January 1998
1 (c) (i) (j) (k) (l) (n); 8; 9  2 March 1998
2 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)     1 April 1998
*Note: 2(a) and 2(b) have been repealed and therefore the EIA Regulations do not apply to these
activities.
50



APPENDIX 2: C.A.P.E. Programme: Policy for Stakeholder Participation
1. Introduction
The policy is divided into two parts, namely:
* A set of principles to guide stakeholder participation; and,
* A table of policies which are organised into themes, each of which has an explicit goal, a set
of objectives and a range of guidelines relevant to each of the objectives.
2. Principles
The process of stakeholder participation in the programme will be guided by a clear set of
principles. These principles are:
*  Value Addition:  Stakeholder participation will be an essential means of adding value to
the Cape programme
*  Inclusivity:    Stakeholder participation will include all relevant stakeholders
*  Accessibility:  Stakeholder participation activity will be accessible and promote access to
the process
*  Transparency:   Stakeholder participation will be based on transparency and fair access to
information
*  Fairness:       Stakeholder participation will ensure that all stakeholders are treated in a
fair and unbiased way
*  Accountability:  Stakeholder participation will be based on a commitment to accountability
by all stakeholders
*  Constructive:   Stakeholder participation will seek to manage conflict and promote the
public interest
*  Redressing:     Stakeholder participation will seek to redress inequity and injustice
*  Capacitating:   Stakeholder participation will seek to develop the capacity of all
stakeholders
*  Needs Based:    Stakeholder participation processes will be based on the needs of all
stakeholders
*  Flexible:       Stakeholder participation activities will be flexibly designed and
implemented
*  Excellence:     Stakeholder participation activity will be subject to ongoing reflection and
improvement
51



3. Policies
The following section sets out the policies under six themes, namely:
*   Approaches to Stakeholder Participation;
*   Implementing Agencies and Stakeholder Relationship;
*   Stakeholders, Needs and Interests;
*   Capacity and Resources;
*   Communication; and,
*   Conflict.
Each of the themes includes an overarching goal, a set of objectives, and guidelines for action.
1. Approaches to Stakeholder Participation
Goal                 Objectives                    Guidelines
Adopt diverse        .   Determine approaches to   *  Customise: Custom design each participation process
approaches to            stakeholder participation in a  using social analysis, as well as other factors, such as
stakeholder              flexible way                 legal requirements, the project objectives, the kind of
participation based on                                activity being undertaken, and the scale of the activity
project objectives and                             *  Supply and demand: Provide opportunities for
conditions                                            stakeholder participation to match the stakeholder
demand for it
.   Participatory design: Agree with stakeholders early in
the process on the focus of the activity and the process
to be followed
*   Use the participation    .   Principles: Use the principles in Section 2. (above) to
principles in planning       guide the approach to stakeholder participation
stakeholder participation
processes
52



2. Implementing Agency and Stakeholder Relationship
Goal                Objectives                     Guidelines
Promote a productive  .  Make a corporate   .          Acknowledgement: Implementing agencies should
and constructive        commitment to stakeholder      publicly acknowledge the value of participation
relationship between    participation              .   Corporate communication: Ensure all agency decision
implementing                                           makers and officials understand the public commitment
agencies and                                       .   Public commitment: Build the relationship with
stakeholders                                           stakeholders and see the community as a partner of the
programme team
.   Build a mutual appreciation  .  Role of Implementing Agencies: Inform stakeholders of
of the contributions and value  Implementing Agencies' roles and powers in stakeholder
of both implementing agencies  participation and decision making
and stakeholders           *   Role of Implementing Agency Employees: Develop a
practice in which agency employees provide support to
stakeholders as well as the implementing agencies
.   Timeframes: Make a commitment to keeping to
timeframes
*   Practical arrangements: Make practical arrangements,
such as timeframes, times, venues, etc., which meet the
needs of stakeholders
*   The Implementing Agencies  *   Constraints: Publicly communicate Implementing
and stakeholders will be       Agencies' powers and constraints regarding stakeholder
accountable in stakeholder     participation, including financial constraints
participation processes    *   Follow through: Follow through on all undertakings in
participation processes; respond to all stakeholder inputs;
provide feedback on final decisions adopted by
Implementing Agencies
*   Agreements: Only make agreements in stakeholder
participation processes when these can be kept.
.   Decision maker involvement: Decision makers should be
involved whenever it is appropriate and possible
*   Process changes: Minimise changes in agreed processes
and where unavoidable make public the reasons for the
changes
*   Objections: Develop ways for stakeholders to object to
processes before the final adoption of agreements
.   Rationalise and coordinate  *  Coordination: Coordinate different stakeholder
stakeholder participation      participation efforts which focus on the same area or
efforts                        issues
53



3. Stakeholders, Needs and Interests
Goal                   Objectives                  Guidelines
Include all relevant   .  Adopt an approach based  *   Interests: Plan and run participation processes in
interested and affected   on stakeholder needs in      keeping with the process and planning needs
parties in stakeholder    designing and implementing   and interests of stakeholders
participation based on    stakeholder participation  *  Needs-based methods: Develop and use
their needs and interests  processes                   methods to establish stakeholder needs and
interests for both process, as well as substantive
content issues
.  Emphasise the needs and   *  Access: Promote opportunities for all to
interests of groups          participate in programme processes, especially
marginalised by social,      historically marginalised and excluded groups
economic, gender and     *   Special interests: Develop guidelines to ensure
cultural factors             sensitivity to gender, social, and cultural interests
*   Time: Provide for the time constraints of
stakeholders, especially those related to time
constraints imposed by jobs by finding mutually
acceptable times for public events
.   Sensitisation: Train implementing agency
officials to be sensitive to marginalised groups
*   Take account of social,  .  Social profiling: Conduct social profiles, or
political and economic       analyses, of stakeholder groups, and identify all
factors in stakeholder       pertinent stakeholders as a basis for planning
participation activities     participation processes
*   Power relationships: Understand power
relationships among and between stakeholder
groups so as to promote fair processes and
prevent domination by unrepresentative groups
or individuals
*   Ensure all stakeholders are  *  Representivity: Establish which stakeholders are
included in stakeholder     important and which are influential and use this
participation processes, and  to assess their participation and contributions to
that they can easily        the process
participate              *   Stakeholder information: Develop and maintain a
database with key information on all stakeholder
groups, such as contact information, mission,
constitution, etc.
.   Individual and group participation: Make explicit
and distinguish in the record of the participation
process the contributions of individuals as
against those of groups
.   Project scales: Ensure that the relevant
stakeholders are involved at the appropriate
levels from the local to the bioregional scale
54



4. Capacity and Resources
Goal                 Objectives                    Guidelines
Support stakeholder  .  Budget sufficiently to ensure  *  Standard practice: Establish a culture of providing
participation processes  successful stakeholder        appropriate resources for stakeholder participation
with appropriate         participation within each  *  Contingent budgets: Make financial provision in each
resources and skills    project and programme          project and programme for follow through on issues
raised in stakeholder participation processes
.   Develop the skills of     .   Capacity needs assessment: Undertake an
stakeholders within both the  assessment of capacity building needs for
implementing agencies and in  implementing agencies and stakeholders
the public to improve      .   Programme: Design and implement capacity building
stakeholder participation     programmes of a general nature, as well as
programmes on a project-by-project basis
.   Support stakeholders to   *   Resource limitations: Make public the implementing
assist them to participate in  agencies' resource limitations that may affect
stakeholder participation     stakeholder participation activity
*   Material support: Establish a policy on providing
material support to stakeholder groups to cover out of
pocket expenses, e.g., transport costs
*   Practical arrangements: Ensure that practical
arrangements, such as the times of events, time
available for responses by stakeholders, and event
locations allow easy stakeholder participation
.   Appoint independent        .  Independence: Where consultants are used, they
stakeholder participation     should be independent of both implementing agency
facilitators where needed     and stakeholder interests
*   Database: Establish and maintain a database of
available independent facilitators
55



5. Communication
Goal                   Objectives                     Guidelines
Establish effective and  .  Ensure that all information  .  Information: Ensure easy and convenient
efficient communication    about CAPE projects and        access to CAPE information
as an essential part of    activities is accessible and  *  Dejargonisation: Ensure as little jargon as
stakeholder participation  promotes participation         possible is used in communications related
processes                                                to the programme
*   Communication skills: Develop the skills of
implementing agency employees in
communicating with stakeholders
*   Translation: Provide for translation of
publications and activities into the three
official regional languages
*   Translation skills: Make use of translators
who have an understanding of the relevant
issues
* Media: Make use of all relevant media,
including printed and electronic media
.   Accessible outlets: Identify and use
accessible locations for the distribution of
documents
.   Evaluation: Ensure ongoing evaluation of
communication activity with a view to
continual improvement
.   Ensure that all stakeholder  *  Communication strategy: Ensure that there
participation processes have a  is a dedicated and explicit communication
central and continuous         strategy for each participatory process,
emphasis on stakeholder        including a media liaison strategy
communication               .  Continuity: Ensure that communication
activity is a continuous and ongoing aspect
of each participatory process
56



6. Conflict
Goal                      Objectives                Guidelines
Adopt a creative approach to  *  Regard conflict as a  *  Valuing conflict: Acknowledge the value of
conflict management and      potentially creative      conflict as a creative force
dispute resolution in        aspect of participatory  *  Conflict management capacity: Undertake a
stakeholder participation    processes                 needs assessment of conflict management
processes                                              capacity within both the implementing agencies
and stakeholders
*  Conflict management training: Formulate and
implement a programme to build conflict
management capacity
.  Use diverse ways to    *   Guidelines: Develop guidelines for managing
manage conflict in        conflict
stakeholder participation  *  Mechanisms: Establish informal and formal
processes                 mechanisms to deal with conflict
*  Skilled support: Draw on skilled support for the
management of conflict and disputes where this
is needed
57



a,
U)



REFERENCES
* Geach, B. November 1999. CAPE, Socio-economic report: situation assessment & review.
* Barnett, M. April 2003, Lowlands
* C.A.P.E. 7 February 2003, Project Concept Document
* C.A.P.E. Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development in the CFR Ecoregion
* C.A.P.E. January 2000. Sectoral Studies: Policy, Legal, Institutional, Financial, Social and
Economic Component by CSIR
* Clarke, C. Atkinson, Attwood and Bacela March 2003, Marine and Coastal
* Clarke, C. February 2003. Land Use Planning & Decision Support
* Jackelman, J. 2003. CAPE, Unleashing the potential of protected areas by James
* Kingdom of Swaziland. September 2003. Energising Rural Transformation Project
Resettlement Policy Framework
* Laros, M. May 2003. CAPE, Institutional Strengthening
* MacDonald, I. March 2003. Freshwater and Watersheds
* SANParks. August 2003. Resettlement Policy Framework and associated Resettlement Action
Plans for year 1 of implementation of the Greater Addo Elephant National Park Project
* Shandler, D. April 2003. CAPE, Participatory Approach
* World Bank, August 1999, OP 4.11 Cultural Property
* World Bank, December 1998, OP 4.09 Pest Management
* World Bank, December 2001, BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
* World Bank, December 2001, OP 4.12 Annex A
* World Bank, December 2001, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
* World Bank, December 2001, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
* World Bank, January 1999, BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
* World Bank, January 1999, OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
* World Bank, June 2001, BP 4.04 Natural Habitats
* World Bank, November 2002, OP 4.36 Forests
59



