                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank


                                                               Report No: ICR00001689




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (TF-53225)

                                          ON A

                                         GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.0 MILLION


                                         TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                          FOR A

  BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                      April 25, 2011




Environment and Natural Resource Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Southern Africa 1, South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Swaziland - AFCS1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective January 30, 2011)
                           Currency Unit = ZAR
                           ZAR 1.00 = US$0.146
                          US$1.00 = Rand 6.851


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABI     Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative
BCSD    Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project
BP      Bank Procedure
CAPE    Cape Action for People and the Environment (previously Cape Action Plan
        for the Environment)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBA     Critical Biodiversity Area
CBD     Convention on Biological Diversity
CCC     CAPE Coordination Committee
CCF     CAPE Conservation Forum
CCU     CAPE Coordination Unit
CEPF    Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund
CFR     Cape Floristic Region
CIC     CAPE Implementation Committee
CN      Cape Nature
COP     Conference of Parties
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DEA     Department of Environmental Affairs (National)
DEAT    Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (National)
DEADP   Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning (Western
        Cape)
DEAET   Department of Economic Affairs, Environment, and Tourism (Eastern
        Cape)
DoA     Department of Agriculture
DWAF    Department of Water Affairs and Forestry
ECPB    Eastern Cape Parks Board
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ExCo    Executive Steering Committee for the BCSD Project
GCBC    Greater Cederberg Biodiversity Corridor
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GEO     Global Environment Objective
GIS     Global Information System
GoSA    Government of South Africa
GRI     Garden Route Initiative
Ha      Hectares
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMP     Integrated Management Plans
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
KBR     Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve

                                    ii
KZN        KwaZulu-Natal
M&E        Monitoring and evaluation
MCM        Marine and Coastal Management Directorate in DEAT
MPA        Marine Protected Area
MSP        GEF Medium-Sized Project
MoU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTE        Independent Mid-Term Evaluation
MTEF       Mid-Term Expenditure Framework
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NBI        National Botanical Institute (later SANBI)
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OP         Operational Policy
PA         Protected Area
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAMETT     Protected Area Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool
PDO        Project Development Objective
PES        Payment(s) for Environmental Services
PF         Process Framework
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PSR        Project Status Report
R          Rand (South African currency)
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
SADC       South African Development Community
SAMETT     South African Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool for protected areas
SANBI      South Africa National Biodiversity Institute
SANParks   South African National Parks
SDF        Spatial Development Framework
SMART      Indicators that are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Timely
STEP       Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem Project
TER        Terminal Evaluation Report
TMF        Table Mountain Fund
TOR        Terms of reference
TTL        Task Team Leader
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
WCNCB      Western Cape Nature Conservation Board (later Cape Nature)
WESSA      Wildlife Society of South Africa
WF         Wilderness Foundation
WfW        Working for Water Program
WWF-SA     World Wide Fund for Nature-South Africa


                    Vice President:      Obiageli Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:     Ruth Kagia
                   Sector Manager:       Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
                 Project Team Leader:    George Ledec
                  ICR Team Leader:       George Ledec



                                        iii
                                                 Republic of South Africa

                 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project


                                                           CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v 
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v 
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi 
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi 
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii 
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii 
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix 
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix 
  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21 
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28 
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 37 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39 
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41 
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42 
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 43 
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 53 
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents and Web Sites .............................................. 60 
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 62 




                                                                    iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            ZA-C.A.P.E.:
                                                                            Biodiversity
Country:                South Africa              Project Name:             Conservation and
                                                                            Sustainable
                                                                            Development Project
Project ID:             P075997                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53225
ICR Date:               04/28/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            SOUTH AFRICA
Original Total
                        USD 9.0M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 9.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 9.0M
Environmental Category: B                         Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 South Africa National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI): Lead Executing Agency
 Cape Nature (CN)
 Eastern Cape Parks Board (ECPB)
 South African National Parks (SANParks)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/20/2003       Effectiveness:             08/31/2004        07/26/2004
Appraisal:            12/05/2003       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/18/2004       Mid-term Review:           05/16/2007        05/16/2007
                                       Closing:                   10/31/2009        10/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings                Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Moderately Satisfactory Government:                        Satisfactory



                                                  i
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision:         Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                                Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                    7                     7
Central government administration                                      21                  21
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       60                  60
General education sector                                                8                    8
Sub-national government administration                                 4                     4


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           50                  50
Environmental policies and institutions                                25                  25
Rural non-farm income generation                                       25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ruth Kagia                            Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:            Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough           Richard G. Scobey
Project Team Leader:       George Campos Ledec                   Christopher James Warner
ICR Team Leader:           George Campos Ledec
ICR Primary Author:        Kathleen S. Mackinnon




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Project Development Objective: To support the conservation of the Cape Floristic Region
(CFR) and adjacent marine environment by laying a sound foundation for scaling up and
replicating successful Project outcomes.

  The Global Objective is to ensure that the conservation of Cape Floristic Region and
adjacent marine environment is secured by 2024.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                          Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                            approval            Target        Completion or
                                           documents)           Values         Target Years
                Number of CAPE signatory institutions that directly support implementation of
Indicator 1 :
                the Project.
Value
(quantitative or 18                        23                                  23
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2004                   10/31/2009                          05/07/2009
Comments
(incl. %         Original target was met (100%).
achievement)
                 Area (hectares) consolidated under formal conservation arrangements within the
Indicator 2 :
                 Baviaanskloof, Cederberg, and Garden Route areas.
Value
(quantitative or 1,054,033 ha              1,454,033 ha                        1,764,117 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005                   10/31/2009                          05/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %         Original target was exceeded (121% of target value and 167% of baseline).
achievement)
                 Number of registered civil society stakeholders participating in the Project
Indicator 3 :
                 increases.
Value                                      2,906 (30%                          3,510 (90%
(quantitative or 1,850                     increase over                       increase over
Qualitative)                               baseline)                           baseline)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                   10/31/2009                          05/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %         Original target was exceeded (121% of target value and 190% of baseline).
achievement)


                                               iii
Indicator 4 : Number of conservation organizations with education strategies.
Value                                        No quantitative
(quantitative or 4                           target established                   67
Qualitative)                                 at outset
Date achieved 06/30/2004                     10/31/2009                           05/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Number of jobs directly associated with conservation and nature-based tourism
Indicator 5 :
                 in Project intervention sites.
Value
(quantitative or 570                         684                                  1,107
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                     10/31/2009                           05/07/2010
Comments
(incl. %         Original target was exceeded (162% of target value and 194% of baseline).
achievement)
                 Number of spatial development frameworks in 6 representative lowland sites that
Indicator 6 :
                 incorporate biodiversity conservation priorities.
Value                                        No quantitative
(quantitative or 0                           target established                   15
Qualitative)                                 at outset
Date achieved 06/01/2004                     10/31/2009                           05/07/2010
Comments
                 15 (out of a total of 18 municipalities in the Project intervention sites) now have
(incl. %
                 biodiversity conservation reflected within their spatial development frameworks.
achievement)
                 Five-year targets for protected area status (in hectares) for irreplaceable Broad
Indicator 7 : Habitat Units in lowlands and watersheds are met as defined by the CAPE 2000
                 Strategy.
Value
(quantitative or 16,115 ha                   56,402 ha                            61,603 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2004                     10/31/2009                           05/07/2010
Comments
                 Original target for placing endangered ecosystems under protected status was
(incl. %
                 exceeded (109% of target value and 350% of baseline).
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of collaborating institutions that sign a Memorandum of Understanding.
Value
(quantitative or 2                         20                                  23
Qualitative)



                                                 iv
Date achieved 06/30/2004                10/31/2009                        10/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %      Original target was exceeded (115% of target value and 1,150% of baseline).
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           GEO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/29/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.15
  3     06/30/2005    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              1.24
  4     12/16/2005    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              1.88
  5     06/29/2006    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.25
  6     01/17/2007        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.57
  7     12/14/2007        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.87
  8     05/22/2008        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     5.03
  9     11/21/2008        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.43
 10     12/29/2008        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.43
 11     06/09/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.52
 12     12/14/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     8.49
 13     06/28/2010        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     8.97


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       The Cape Floristic Region (CFR) is the smallest and richest of the world’s floral kingdoms
and entirely contained within a single country, South Africa. The CFR includes more than 9,600
species of plants, many of them endemic to the region. It is a global biodiversity hotspot because of
its rich levels of floral diversity and high degree of threat, especially to lowland habitats which are
under pressure from conversion for agriculture and urban development.

2.      The CAPE 2000 Strategy—also known as the Cape Action Plan for the Environment—was
developed as part of the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project, which was South
Africa’s first World Bank-GEF project. The CAPE 2000 Strategy identified the key ecological
patterns and processes which need to be conserved in the CFR and the key threats and root causes of
biodiversity loss. This resulted in a spatial plan identifying the priority areas for conservation
intervention and a series of systemic program activities to be undertaken in three phases, over a 20-
year period, to conserve the CFR. The Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development
(BCSD) Project was designed to support the first phase of the CAPE Program. The BCSD Project
included six components and was jointly implemented, financed, and supervised by (i) the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), responsible for Components 1-2 and (ii) the World Bank,
responsible for Components 3-6. Close collaboration between the Bank and UNDP, including joint
implementation support missions, ensured that the Project was managed holistically. For
completeness, this ICR covers all six components, not just the Bank-supported ones.

3.      Within the CFR, the BCSD Project was complemented by (i) the UNDP-GEF Agulhas
Biodiversity Initiative (ABI) Project, focused on the Agulhas Plain; (ii) the Critical Ecosystem
Partnership Fund (CEPF); and (iii) the Table Mountain Fund (TMF). CEPF and TMF funded a
variety of activities supporting civil society and capacity-building in the CFR. CEPF funding also
played a critical role in preparation of the BCSD Project and support for the transition period
between the first GEF project and the start of BCSD.

4.      The BCSD Project was consistent with guidance from the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD) to encourage conservation and sustainable use of threatened habitats and endemic
species within vulnerable montane and dryland ecosystems. It fostered the ecosystem approach by
promoting improved management and sustainable use in four mega-reserves covering altitudinal
gradients from the mountains to the coast. The project was expected to lay a foundation to
mainstream biodiversity in the CFR into economic activities and to pilot and adopt new models for
biodiversity management, including strengthened management of protected areas and improved
biodiversity conservation off-reserve. The whole project was designed with a view to scaling up and
replicating successful outcomes across the CFR during, and after, project implementation in line with
the CAPE 2000 Strategy.

5.      The Project was designed to begin implementation of the CAPE 2000 Strategy, adopted by
the Government of South Africa in 2000 to protect the rich biological heritage of the CFR and to
ensure that biodiversity conservation was mainstreamed into economic development and poverty
alleviation strategies. The primary rationale of the Bank's assistance was to foster social and
environmental sustainability and enhance environmental management in line with one of the main
objectives of the CAS. As a GEF-funded project, BCSD was designed with the primary focus of
conserving globally significant biodiversity. However, from a South African perspective, the Project
was also expected to help to reduce poverty and inequality. The Project sought to achieve this by
leveraging ongoing government programs to promote the biodiversity economy, including nature-
                                                 1
based tourism and other conservation-linked livelihoods, thereby creating jobs for disadvantaged
communities. The Project was also expected to contribute to break down traditional barriers of
inequality and exclusion through new employment opportunities, enhanced job training, and the
involvement of local communities in Project activities.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objective (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the BCSD Project’s Global
Environmental Objective (GEO) was to ensure that the conservation of the Cape Floristic Region
and adjacent marine environment is secured by 2024. This GEO reflected the overall goals of the
longer-term CAPE 2000 Strategy and CAPE Program, although it did not accurately reflect what was
achievable through the shorter-term BCSD Project itself--which closed in 2010 and thus could not
ensure an outcome in 2024. However, the Project Development Objective (PDO) had a more
appropriate focus for the Project’s time horizon. As stated in the PAD, the PDO was to support the
conservation of the Cape Floristic Region and adjacent marine environment by laying a sound
foundation for scaling up and replicating successful Project outcomes. The PDO was to be achieved
through the two Project sub-objectives of (i) laying the foundations for mainstreaming biodiversity
into the economy and (ii) undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations in selected
biophysical, socio-economic, and institutional contexts with a view to scaling these up. The project
objective stated in the GEF Grant Agreement (Schedule 2) was identical in substance to the PDO in
the PAD, though with slightly different wording: “to catalyze and drive the implementation of the
CAPE Program (i) through laying the foundations for mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy
and (ii) by undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations with a view to scaling up
selected biophysical, socio-economic, and institutional contexts.?

7.     The Key Indicators to measure overall project performance were:

       a. All CAPE signatory institutions directly support implementation of the Project.

      b. The number of registered civil society stakeholders participating in the Project increases by
30% (over the October 2002 baseline).

        c. A CFR-wide conservation education strategy is successfully designed and implemented
across the Project area.

        d. The Baviaanskloof, Cederberg, and Garden Route protected areas are consolidated.
(Although not explicitly defined in the PAD, “consolidated? in this context is understood to mean
both (i) strengthening the management of existing protected areas and (ii) ensuring the conservation
of nearby high-priority ecosystems and corridors, through protected area expansion as well as
promoting conservation stewardship by private landowners.)

        e. The number of jobs directly associated with conservation and nature-based tourism in
Project intervention sites increases by 20% (over the 2004 pre-Project baseline).

       f. Spatial development frameworks in six representative lowland sites incorporate
conservation priorities. (These lowland sites would contain highly threatened lowland ecosystem
types characteristic of the CFR.)

        g. Five-year targets for protected area status for irreplaceable Broad Habitat Units in lowland
areas and watersheds are met, as defined by the CAPE 2000 Strategy.


                                                  2
1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.      The original GEO and Key Indicators were not formally revised, but the PDO project
indicators provided in the PAD Logical Framework (log-frame) were refined to be more measurable
and otherwise satisfy better the SMART criteria (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and
Timely). At the MTR, as part of adaptive management, some changes were also agreed with respect
to activities under specific components to attain more realistic targets, most notably regarding new
freshwater and estuarine protected areas. All changes made to the project log frame/design and
indicators were agreed to in project Executive Steering Committee (ExCo) meetings and during
implementation support missions. These decisions are all captured in the minutes of the meetings or
Aide Memoires. Most changes took place at the MTR and are captured in the Aide Memoire of the
November 2007 mission. The Annual Work Plans and Quarterly Reports that were prepared for each
component and sub-component clearly outlined planned approaches, and were approved by the
World Bank and UNDP task team leaders.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.       The main beneficiaries from conservation in the CFR were expected to be the global
community (hence the GEF grant to protect global biodiversity) and the people of South Africa,
especially those living within the CFR. The primary target groups identified in the PAD were the
government agencies responsible for biodiversity conservation and watershed management, who
were expected to benefit from institutional strengthening and enhanced capacity and new
institutional mechanisms to manage natural resources.

10.     Although not primarily designed for poverty reduction, the Project was also expected to
benefit local communities, including disadvantaged groups, by creating a number of socio-economic
opportunities for communities and businesses, with a targeted net gain in jobs of 20% associated
with conservation-based livelihoods including nature-based tourism. Communities and
disadvantaged groups were expected to benefit from the Project-supported expansion of existing,
government-funded poverty relief programs, such as Working for Water. The BCSD Project re-
oriented the activities of these existing programs, so that they would be biodiversity-friendly and
supportive of CAPE Program priorities, such as by supporting environmental rehabilitation within
protected areas and targeted watersheds. In this manner, the Project sought to create much-needed
employment and micro-enterprise development opportunities. Other benefits for local populations
would include conservation education; training and capacity-building opportunities for targeted
communities, schools, and NGOs; and greater involvement of local communities in the management
and governance of terrestrial and marine reserves. At least two poor communities were expected to
benefit from co-management models for marine resource management, while others would benefit
from improved anti-poaching and management of marine resources.

11.     The Project was also expected to provide benefits to local landowners and the private sector,
especially where landowners contract land into protected areas, and to lay the initial foundation for
the establishment of the biodiversity economy. The main benefits for landowners were expected to
include (i) opportunities for the private sector in four targeted mega-reserves (large protected area
complexes with different land use zones under a common management plan)--Baviaanskloof,
Cederberg, Gouritz, and Garden Route--through tourism-related services and accommodation; (ii)
benefits to a number of landowners and farmers located in sensitive lowland areas through tax
incentives and payments for environmental services; and (iii) extension services to landowners to
improve environmental management as part of Stewardship Agreements.

1.5 Original Components
                                                 3
12.    The Project was designed to establish a foundation to catalyze and drive the first phase of
implementation of the CAPE Program. The Project had six components, two implemented through
UNDP (Components 1 and 2) and four through World Bank (Components 3-6), but was managed
and supervised as one project. Coordination through the CAPE Coordination Unit (CCU) was
supported under Component 3.

13.    Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (GEF: US$1.4 million, financed through
UNDP). This component was executed by the National Botanical Institute (NBI, later the South
Africa National Biodiversity Institute, SANBI) for priority institutions, including the Western Cape
Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB), later Cape Nature (CN) and for five new Catchment
Management Agencies. The objective of this component was to align and strengthen institutions to
conserve the CFR through (i) enhanced inter-agency cooperation and strategic planning for
conservation management in the CFR, including the five catchment management agencies which
were to be established; (ii) building capacity for effective conservation management; (iii) developing
and appraising strategies for financial sustainability across the suite of project executing agencies;
and (iv) establishing a shared and comprehensive information management system to share the most
important knowledge requirements.

14.    Component 2: Conservation Education (GEF: US$0.6 million, financed through UNDP).
This component was executed by SANBI, in partnership with Rhodes University (Eastern Cape).
The component was designed to develop a conservation education and awareness program to
conserve the CFR. It was designed to:

        a. Facilitate coordinated environmental education about the CFR by establishing (i) a focal
point and mechanism for coordination and (ii) technical support to site-specific interventions at the
level of each sub-component and activity across the Project; and

       b. Develop and disseminate materials focused on CFR biodiversity, supportive of informal
and formal education curricula, including training of educators to capitalize on the favorable
education policy environment.

15.    Component 3: Program and Project Coordination, Management, and Monitoring (GEF:
US$1.10 million, financed through the World Bank). This component was executed by SANBI for
all beneficiary institutions to the Project. The component was designed to support the CAPE
Coordination Unit at SANBI to undertake (i) program coordination and management; (ii) financial
management of the overall project; (iii) program portfolio management and coordinated monitoring
and evaluation to assess lessons learned and support and develop a replication plan, based on cost-
benefit analysis; and (iv) a communications program to disseminate information about Project-
supported activities and promote participation in them.

16.    Component 4: Protected Areas (GEF: US$4.12 million, financed through the World Bank).
This component was executed by (i) South African National Parks (SANParks) for the Garden Route
and adjacent marine protected areas; (ii) Cape Nature for protected areas in the Western Cape,
including the Cederberg Mega-Reserve and Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve; and (iii) Wilderness
Foundation for the Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve, in collaboration with the Eastern Cape Department
of Economic Affairs, Environment, and Tourism (DEAET). The component was designed to expand
the protected areas of the CFR through (i) planning and consolidation of three large protected area
complexes (mega-reserves) involving private landowners and inhabitants as beneficiaries (Cederberg,
Baviaanskloof, and Garden Route), including highly threatened lowland habitat, using different
models for public-private sector management; (ii) establishment of two freshwater, two estuarine,
and two clusters of marine protected areas; (iii) developing sustainable management effectiveness of
                                                  4
protected areas through implementation of a Strategic Performance Management System, based on
the models developed in the Cape Peninsula National Park and rapid assessment techniques for
management effectiveness developed by the World Bank, WWF, and IUCN; and (iv) developing
harmonized protected area information management systems, plans for responsible tourism
investment, and visitor impact mitigation in four protected areas, as well as protected area business
plans and mechanisms for financial sustainability in four protected areas.

17.     Component 5: Biodiversity Economy and Conservation Stewardship (GEF: US$2.45
million, financed through the World Bank). This component was executed by SANBI and by Cape
Nature for the Western Cape Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning
(DEADP), Department of Agriculture (DoA), and key municipalities. The component was designed
to mainstream biodiversity considerations into economic growth and development, including
demonstrations in key areas. It would (i) integrate fine-scale conservation plans in five priority target
areas into government spatial planning and regulations at municipal level; (ii) increase landowner
commitment to conservation through coordinated extension services and cooperative management
schemes (including Stewardship Agreements) in priority target areas; and (iii) develop and pilot
financial incentives to conserve biodiversity in threatened lowland habitats, including tax incentives
and payments for environmental services.

18.     Component 6: Watershed Management (GEF: US$1.32 million, financed through the
World Bank). This component was executed by SANBI for estuarine and freshwater protected areas,
and by Cape Nature for the Department of Water Affairs and Forestry (DWAF) for watersheds. The
component was designed to address watershed management and freshwater and estuarine protected
areas in key intervention sites. It was intended to increase the effectiveness of the “Ecological
Reserve?, a feature of South African water law that is intended to ensure that rivers retain the
quantity of water they need to maintain their biodiversity and ecological functions. Component 6 also
was intended to (i) incorporate biodiversity concerns into new fire management systems; (ii) create a
non-native invasive species management strategy and business plan for the entire CFR and pilot the
control of invasive non-native species in priority ecosystems; and (iii) design and test a CFR
estuarine management program, based on relevant case studies.

1.6 Revised Components

19.     The original Project components were not revised, but some sub-components were dropped
and activities were re-designed as a result of discussions during the Mid-term Review. The original
design envisaged that the Project would support the establishment and management of two marine,
two estuarine, and two freshwater protected areas under Component 4 (Protected Areas). At the
MTR it was agreed that this was unrealistic, particularly given institutional and budget constraints at
Cape Nature and at MCM. As a result, instead of creating new freshwater, marine and wetland
reserves, it was agreed that this sub-component would focus on improved planning and establishing
participatory processes to improve the management of existing marine protected areas adjacent to the
Kogelberg and Garden Route. This was complemented by the preparation of detailed Estuary
Management Plans for six critical estuaries in the CFR under Component 6, including the Knysna
Estuary already under management by SANParks. Thus, although the Project was never formally re-
structured, the activities involving aquatic ecosystems were substantially revised at the MTR stage,
to make implementation more feasible.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

20.     The Project’s design, scope, and implementation arrangements remained substantially
unchanged, even though several of the key institutions underwent substantial reorganization during
the life of the Project. The project was designed with the National Botanical Institute (NBI) as the
                                                   5
grant recipient with the Western Cape Nature Conservation Board (WCNCB), South African
National Parks (SANParks) and the Wilderness Foundation (WF) acting as Sub-Executing Agencies
for specific sites and sub-components. Early in the Project, the NBI became the South African
National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) with national responsibility for biodiversity country-wide
and a greatly expanded mandate and work program. The WCNCB was restructured to form Cape
Nature (CN) but also suffered budgetary cuts. Reductions in CN budgets were offset to some extent
by BCSD Project and CEPF support for some key positions at CN, including for the Stewardship
Program and Project Coordinator, which helped to maintain effective Project implementation. In the
Eastern Cape, the Wilderness Foundation (WF), an NGO, took initial responsibility for the
Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve, but in 2007 this role was taken over by the newly-formed Eastern
Cape Parks Board, with additional technical support from WF. Despite these institutional changes,
the project functioned well, thanks to the strong coordination and facilitation role played by the Cape
Coordinating Unit (CCU) and the commonly shared CAPE vision of the various executing agencies.

21.      At the time of Project preparation the expectation was that five new Catchment Management
Authorities would be established and that Components 1 and 6 would work with these new
institutions to promote effective catchment management. This process was much delayed; to date,
only four authorities have been established and only one is effectively operational. Nevertheless,
activities undertaken under Component 6 have been effective in building on existing partnerships and
responsibilities to improve catchment management, including planning and prioritizing for water
management and environmental water allocations (known in South Africa as the ecological reserve),
invasive species removal, and fire management to improve biodiversity benefits. Similarly, MCM
and Cape Nature proved to have neither the capacity nor the resources to effectively manage the
marine reserves. This shortfall ideally would have been anticipated during preparation and appraisal,
with appropriate adjustments made in Project design. As the limited capacity of MCM and Cape
Nature for marine conservation became evident during Project implementation, the World Wide
Fund for Nature-South Africa (WWF-SA) was engaged (through the CCU) to undertake
participatory management planning with fishing communities in the Kogelberg Marine Protected
Area (MPA); this planning laid a good foundation for subsequent establishment and co-management
of this MPA.

22.     The Project was originally designed for a time span of five years. It became effective in 2004
with an expected closing date of October 31, 2009; it was extended for a year until October 30, 2010,
with funds fully disbursed and most targets reached and often exceeded. The extended duration of
the Project was invaluable in allowing effective completion of certain planning processes and
implementation of sustainability measures. The one-year extension also enabled the replication and
roll-out of guidelines and best practices to take place as originally planned, both within the CFR
Project area and nationally. One such example is biodiversity conservation on private lands: The
Project developed four different categories of land stewardship options in which landowners could
choose to participate (Conservation Areas, Biodiversity Agreements, Protected Environments, and
Nature Reserves), each with a different bundle of rights and responsibilities. By providing such
differentiated options, the Project encouraged more landowners to carry out biodiversity-friendly
land stewardship than if there were only one (or zero) options. The demonstration effect for
promoting land stewardship has been country-wide, and realized largely during the last year of
Project implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

23.    The BCSD Project was designed to provide funding for the first-phase, five-year time slice
and targeted activities prioritized under the 20-year vision of the CAPE Action Plan. It was
                                                6
developed through a highly participatory process that included government agencies, NGOs,
academic institutions, local landowners, and communities. BCSD Project design built on outcomes
from the previous Cape Peninsula Conservation Project, and on lessons learned and collaborative
partnerships established during that earlier project. The overall design of the BCSD Project was
highly ambitious, to establish a foundation of planning, partnerships, and pilot activities which could
then be rolled out under later phases of the CAPE Program. About half of all Project expenditure was
focused on protected areas, especially in four key biological corridors (Baviaanskloof, Cederberg,
Garden Route, and Kogelberg) identified as priority sites under the CAPE Action Plan. These sites
cover a range of institutional and sectoral challenges, which required institutional change and
cooperation between different government agencies and stakeholders. Within the CFR, these corridor
efforts were complemented by (i) a sister UNDP-GEF project for the Agulhas Plain (Agulhas
Biodiversity Initiative, ABI) and by (ii) support for the Gouritz and Namaqualand initiatives through
the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) investment plan for the Cape Floristic Region and
Succulent Karoo Hotspots; these complementary efforts were also designed in line with the CAPE
Action Plan.

24.     The Project also benefited and built on experiences from a series of GEF medium-sized
projects (MSPs), including a targeted research project on biodiversity-friendly farming and the
Subtropical Thicket Ecosystem Project (STEP) that piloted integration of biodiversity considerations
within municipal spatial planning. Project activities were designed to be incremental to ongoing
government activities and catalytic in bringing about more cost-effective collaboration across a
partnership network to ensure more efficient use of existing government and conservation budgets.
Project activities were closely linked to those of the CEPF and the Table Mountain Fund--both
established with earlier Bank-GEF contributions--which provided supplemental funding to support
complementary civil society activities and additional agency positions that often contributed to the
success of BCSD Project investments.

25.     The Project concept was catalytic, seeking to leverage partnerships and influence and re-align
regular government budgets in a way that would promote and mainstream biodiversity conservation.
The GEF budget was modest and not all expected co-funding materialized. The Project was able to
achieve most of the first-phase targets of the CAPE 2000 Strategy within the available time scale
(especially when extended to six years) and budget. At entry, the Project was assessed as Low to
Medium Risk, even though the design was complex with four executing agencies--SANParks, Cape
Nature, Wilderness Foundation, and SANBI. Creation of a dedicated CAPE Coordinating Unit
(CCU) in SANBI and representation of key agencies on CAPE steering committees were designed to
build strong collaboration and information exchange among the partners. The CEPF provided bridge
funding to support establishment of the CCU within SANBI. This enabled Project partners to build
on the collaboration established around the development of the CAPE Action Plan and to test some
pilot activities, which were then expanded and rolled out under the BCSD.

26.      The Project built on the strong partnerships and enthusiasm generated by preparation and
adoption of the Cape 2000 Strategy. As a result, the Project included activities focusing on all key
conservation priorities and habitats within the CFR, including ambitious targets to establish new
marine, freshwater, and estuarine protected areas. Although improved conservation of aquatic
ecosystems was much needed, these original Project targets were overly ambitious, given the limited
human and financial resources of Cape Nature and MCM; these targets were thus revised during the
MTR. In the case of the Catchment Management Authorities as well as the aquatic ecosystems, the
institutional and budgetary constraints that later proved problematic were not adequately taken into
account during Project preparation and appraisal. The Project’s Quality at Entry is therefore rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
                                                  7
27.      The Project was complex, with many components and sub-components implemented by
different partners and stakeholders. Arguably, this diversity and complexity actually contributed to
its strengths and success, by engaging a wide range of players and linking to many other government
programs and NGO initiatives. The original Project design identified four executing agencies:
SANParks, WCNBC (hereafter Cape Nature), and Wilderness Foundation were all responsible for
site-based interventions, while NBI (hereafter SANBI) was the lead agency responsible for the
CAPE Coordination Unit (CCU) and supporting activities such as bio-regional planning, institutional
support, and conservation education. In 2007, the new Eastern Cape Parks Board took over
responsibility for the Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve from the Wilderness Foundation. Although
several of the executing agencies underwent institutional change, all were able to deliver on project
responsibilities. The fact that SANBI passed on resources to the other agencies helped to strengthen
partnerships. However, it placed an additional management burden on SANBI, especially when the
CCU was required to assist other executing agencies with procurement and financial management.

28.     The World Bank’s Mid-Term Review (MTR) and the UNDP-supported, independent Mid-
Term Evaluation (MTE) both identified Cape Nature as a crucial player in biodiversity conservation
within the CFR, but found its contribution to be weaker than expected because of management
changes and budget and staffing constraints; these had not been anticipated at appraisal. In response,
the CCU provided additional support to Cape Nature for component development, drafting of TOR,
and financial management and procurement matters, as well as operating costs for staff in the
Kogelberg and Gouritz conservation areas. In recognition of limited Cape Nature capacity, the MTR
recommended (i) restructuring of the Kogelberg and Marine sub-components and (ii) deferring the
establishment of two new estuarine and freshwater protected areas. WWF-South Africa was engaged
to undertake participatory planning and zoning of the Kogelberg MPA; funding was also found for
the implementation of the Kogelberg Integrated Coastal Management Plan and the Co-Management
Plan. With Project assistance, a Business Plan was developed for CN and the position of Technical
Advisor was created. Many of the posts created through the project have now been absorbed into the
CN staff complement and there is also a stated intention to absorb the balance, dependent on
increased Mid-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) funds for Cape Nature.

29.     The high level of cooperation and partnerships was a notable Project feature, building on and
further strengthening a long history of inter-agency collaboration to promote conservation in the CFR.
The leadership and professionalism of the dedicated Cape Coordination Unit at SANBI was critical
in building strong collaboration and driving information exchange among the partners. Governance
of the project was complex and multi-layered, but worked quite well, through frequent meetings of
the Executive Steering Committee (ExCo) and task teams where annual and other operational plans
were discussed and agreed. Additional resources were leveraged for conservation activities through
these partnerships, particularly through re-alignment of government budgets from regular work
programs, such as the Working for Water Program, which contributed over US$25 million for
clearing of invasive, non-native vegetation in high-biodiversity watersheds. Although a number of
the original pledges turned out to be smaller than expected, this was more than balanced by the
support provided by the universities, municipalities and Provincial Government organizations who
became involved in BCSD activities. Overall, the amount of co-funding leveraged by the Project was
Highly Satisfactory, with more than $4 of co-funding for every $1 from the GEF.

30.     The updated Stakeholders Participation Plan shows that stakeholders at all levels from
government agencies, NGOs, private sector and local communities were meaningfully involved in
Project implementation. Many stakeholders benefited from capacity-building activities, while others
participated in governance groups such as Steering Committees and Task Forces. The CCU and other
Project partners were closely involved in the identification, development, and implementation of a
suite of sub-projects, including small grants for livelihoods enhancement, where rural communities
                                                  8
were implementers and/or beneficiaries. Although funded through CEPF and TMF, these activities
were deliberately designed to complement the BCSD. The role of the CCU as the local coordinating
unit for (i) CEPF grants in the CFR and (ii) representation of the TMF on the Project Steering
Committee enabled close alignment and synergies between the BCSD Project and the CEPF and
TMF programs. Annual stakeholder forums and other events strengthened stakeholder ownership and
enabled effective dissemination of information and best practices. The Project developed and
disseminated an impressive list of publications documenting these lessons (Annex 9).

31.    Within the GEF, the BCSD Project is regarded as an excellent example of mainstreaming
biodiversity and has repeatedly been showcased internationally, such as at the GEF Assembly in
Uruguay in May 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

32.     Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design, implementation, and utilization are
considered to be moderately satisfactory. Of the seven Key Indicators identified in the PAD Log
frame, four satisfy the SMART criteria. During Project implementation, the CCU developed a
revised monitoring matrix with more measurable indicators, both for the BCSD Project and for the
broader CAPE Action Plan, with agencies reporting annually against specific indicators and targets.
Changes to indicators were made as an improvement to the original Log Frame, whereas the changes
to component scope and focus (such as for marine conservation) were made as an adaptation to
changing circumstances or in the light of new experience, consistent with adaptive management.
Most changes took place following the MTR and all were agreed in Executive Steering Committee
(ExCo) meetings and during implementation support missions. A comprehensive, updated Log
Frame was produced and attached to the World Bank’s MTR Report. Project monitoring was used
effectively to inform management and take corrective actions where appropriate.

33.     The PDO and support for the first phase of the CAPE 2000 Strategy have largely been
achieved; this conclusion is supported by the UNDP Terminal Evaluation, CCU’s Close-Out Report,
Project Implementation Reviews, mission Aide Memoires, stakeholder consultations, and field visits.
Most of the targets set by the Project have been met and in some cases exceeded. The Project is
recognized internationally as a good source of lessons for mainstreaming biodiversity in other GEF
projects. These include the Biodiversity GIS information system and approaches to learning
networks, corridor conservation, stewardship, payments for environmental services (PES), estuary
management, fire and invasive species management, standards for fine-scale planning, and
mechanisms to influence land use planning and decision making. The Project has laid a foundation
for scaling up and replicating its outcomes; this has broadly contributed to the generation of support
for conservation in the CFR and even at the national level (such as in the case of private lands
stewardship).

34.      Protected Area Management Effectiveness. In line with GEF requirements, all existing
protected areas within the four Project-supported mega-reserves and new replication sites used the
GEF’s Protected Area Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (PAMETT) on a regular basis. The
PAMETT rates overall protected area management according to a large number of measurable
criteria, on a 0-100 scale. Overall protected area management effectiveness improved for Project-
assisted protected areas; for example, the PAMETT scores between 2005 and 2010 increased from
37 to 47 for the Groot Winterhoek Wilderness Area (Cederberg) and from 46 to 70 for Knysna Lake
National Park (Garden Route). However, since many existing protected areas in the CFR already had
a reasonably high standard of on-the-ground management, the Project’s more important contribution
was to increase the total area under protection, particularly in the case of highly threatened
ecosystems. As an outgrowth of the Project, SANParks has adapted and strengthened the PAMETT
tracking tool to look in more detail at biodiversity status, threats, and infrastructure, and has rolled
                                                   9
out the South African Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool for Protected Areas (SAMETT) to
all South African national parks. The SAMETT has also been adopted for use in other South African
protected areas, including the metropolitan protected areas under the jurisdiction of the City of Cape
Town. Another noteworthy Project outcome is that the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA)
has expanded use of the PAMETT to all protected areas in South Africa and will be using the data on
management effectiveness in its national report on the Protected Area program of work of the
Convention on Biological Diversity.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.     Environmental Safeguards. Project compliance with the World Bank’s environmental and
social Safeguard Policies was Satisfactory. The Project’s environmental classification was Category
B. During Project preparation, the following World Bank Safeguard Policies were triggered (found to
apply): Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01, Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04, Forests OP 4.36,
Cultural Property OPN 11.03 (now Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11), and Involuntary
Resettlement OP 4.12. To help ensure compliance with the above-mentioned environmental
Safeguard Policies, NBI (now SANBI) prepared an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) for the Project (NBI 2003a). ESMF preparation included formal consultation by
SANBI with the other Project executing agencies, as well as with other stakeholders. Throughout its
implementation, the Project did not produce any significant, adverse environmental impacts. This
finding is not surprising, since the Project was designed to be entirely beneficial from an
environmental standpoint. Nonetheless, the World Bank’s Operational Policies on Natural Habitats,
Forests, and Cultural Property were applicable to the Project because these policies promote
environmentally positive measures (in the sense of “do good?) as well as restricting potentially
damaging activities (in the sense of “do little or no harm?).

36.     Social Safeguards. To help ensure compliance with the World Bank’s Involuntary
Resettlement Policy (OP/BP 4.12), NBI prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and
Process Framework (PF) within a single document (NBI 2003b). The RPF was prepared in case any
involuntary taking of land under the Project would cause people to be physically relocated or to lose
any land, other material assets, or livelihoods. The PF was prepared in case any new restrictions of
access to natural resources within Project-supported protected areas would adversely affect existing
livelihoods. For the most part, these issues did not emerge during Project implementation. During
implementation of Component 4 (Protected Areas), most expansion of terrestrial protected areas
came from the re-assignment of state-owned forestry lands and/or voluntary stewardship agreements
with private landowners and communities. Plans to establish new marine, freshwater, and estuarine
protected areas were shelved, but the Project did support the zoning of particular natural resource
uses within existing marine protected areas. Such zoning took place in accordance with the criteria
and procedures established under the PF. For example, zoning in the Betty’s Bay MPA was agreed in
a fully participatory manner in consultation with local stakeholders.

37.     Coleske Community at Bavianskloof. The one Project activity that most notably involved
the application of OP/BP 4.12 was the proposed resettlement of resident farm workers (comprising
35 households) away from the former Coleske Farm area within the core zone of the Bavianskloof
Mega-Reserve. The Coleske Farm was purchased by the Eastern Cape Department of Economic
Affairs, Environment, and Tourism (DEAET) in 2001 to increase the area of ecologically important
lowland riverine habitats and strengthen a wildlife corridor within the Baviaanskloof Reserve; less
than 1% of the reserve currently protects lowland riverine corridors. The farm purchase, completed
well before the start of the BCSD project, was between willing buyer and willing seller—however,
no provision had been made for the agricultural workers employed on the farm. None of these
workers have land ownership rights under South African Law. The Eastern Cape Parks Board
(ECPB), presently responsible for the management of Bavianskloof, has sought to reach agreement
                                                 10
with the Coleske community on resettlement to an area outside the Reserve’s core zone, with
improved housing and access to services. As of this writing, a segment of the Coleske community
has continued to decline ECBP’s resettlement offers. Without the community’s voluntary agreement
to resettle, ECBP has not yet moved forward with the option of seeking a court order that would
require the resettlement to take place. Although involuntary resettlement--with the appropriate
conditions--is allowed under South African law as well as the Bank’s Involuntary Resettlement
Policy, it is considered politically quite sensitive.

38.      When the GEF Grant Agreement for the BCSD Project was approved in 2004, it referenced a
Process Framework (PF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), prepared in accordance with
the Bank’s Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12. The PF outlines a process for assisting the Coleske
residents in their efforts to maintain or improve their livelihoods, for as long as they remain within
the Bavianskloof Reserve. Implementation support missions included World Bank social safeguards
specialists who regularly reviewed the situation at Coleske and ECPB efforts to resolve the issue.
The final World Bank implementation support mission visited the Coleske site, met with many of the
residents, and concluded that the BCSD Project has adequately addressed livelihood-related concerns
for the Coleske population, in a manner consistent with the PF. To help sustain the livelihoods of the
Coleske residents, ECBP has agreed to specific uses of natural resources within the Reserve, as well
as providing preferential employment opportunities to Coleske residents, including 10 staff jobs. The
Coleske residents have thus been able to maintain or improve their livelihoods, while awaiting the
outcome of the Government’s decision-making process as to their proposed resettlement outside the
Reserve.

39.     The RPF provided for the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), in the event that
ECPB (and Government in general) would decide to relocate the Coleske residents outside the
Reserve. The BCSD Project did not include funding for any such resettlement, which was not
considered essential for achieving the Project’s GEO or PDO. Nonetheless, ECPB prepared a draft
RAP (CES 2008), upon which the Bank provided technical comments in June 2009. In response to
the Bank’s comments and to update the situation on the ground, ECPB prepared (i) an Addendum to
the RAP and (ii) an Action Plan for the next steps that Government would need to take in order to
conclude the political and legal decision-making process for proceeding with the planned
resettlement of the Coleske residents to the Bosdorp site identified in the RAP. The final Bank
implementation support mission visited this site and found it to be a suitable area that would enable
the provision of improved primary education, water, electricity, waste disposal, and other services to
the resettled population, in accordance with the provisions of the RAP. Thus, the key elements for a
successful resettlement are in place, awaiting either the community’s voluntary agreement or
Government’s decision to proceed with involuntary resettlement, based on the legal and political
process. If and when it takes place, this resettlement would be funded with the Government’s own
resources.

40.     Fiduciary Compliance. Under the Project, both procurement and financial management
were Satisfactory. Early in the Project, World Bank procurement specialists provided training on the
Bank’s required procurement procedures. CCU staff proved to be very capable in procurement and
financial management, often providing assistance to other executing agencies on these matters.
Independent financial audits, along with recruitment and contracting, have been carried out in
accordance with World Bank, UNDP, and/or GEF (as applicable) procedures and requirements.
Progress reports, evaluation reports, and annual financial reports have been posted on the Project
website www.capeaction.org.za and have been made publicly available in the interest of transparency.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase


                                                 11
41.     Although the overall design was highly ambitious, the Project successfully achieved its
targets and has provided a solid foundation of planning, partnerships, and good practice which is
already being rolled out more broadly and will influence implementation of the next phase of the
CAPE program. The BCSD Project contributed to several national and provincial policy
interventions, including the National Biodiversity Act (2004); environmental assessment and
guidelines for biodiversity offsets developed under the National Environmental Management Act;
guidelines for bio-regional planning; and land use planning and management guidelines under the
Western Cape Provincial Spatial Development Framework. These policy interventions can be
expected to have long-term positive impacts for mainstreaming biodiversity conservation within
development activities in the CFR and more widely throughout South Africa.

42.     The project demonstrated the value of tools, such as fine-scale planning and working with
multiple partners, to integrate biodiversity considerations into municipal spatial development
frameworks; fine-scale maps are already being used by 31 out of 34 CFR municipalities. Further
mainstreaming of biodiversity into municipal planning is likely to be a key area for follow-up in later,
post-Project phases of the CAPE Program. The project also demonstrated the value of working with
private landowners through stewardship arrangements and good biodiversity practice in business,
especially the agriculture sector. Although SANParks will not be continuing its stewardship program
because of an internal policy decision to focus more exclusively on its own protected areas, Cape
Nature is firmly committed to sustain and expand its stewardship agreements. Best practice
guidelines for stewardship developed in Western Cape are now being rolled out and further
developed in other provinces (Kwa-Zulu Natal and Eastern Cape).

43.     Many activities piloted under the BCSD are already influencing other programs, such as
participatory management planning for marine and coastal areas nationally under the privately-
funded WWF-Honda Marine Program; tax incentives for landowners under stewardship agreements
being applied nationally; piloting of payments for environmental services; educational outputs and
capacity building, influencing national curricula; and follow-on skills development programs. Many
of the stakeholder groups formed under the project will continue beyond project closure; these
include the national-level Green Economy Think Tank and Stewardship Technical Working Group,
among others. Site-based interventions are likely to be continued and expanded, especially by Cape
Nature and Eastern Cape Parks Board, although potential future budgetary constraints may slow
these agencies’ rate of progress.

44.     It is difficult to separate out all the activities and outcomes attributable to the BCSD from the
other activities supported under the CAPE Partnership. The strategic inter-mingling of Project and
co-funding resources for activities from both government and non-government sources is itself a
form of mainstreaming that is likely to lead to replication of Project-promoted good practices. Long-
term sustainability and impact of the replication strategy will depend critically on such
mainstreaming into the public expenditure program and institutional processes. This process has
already begun, with key partners committing to a second phase with local funding. This will require
continued leadership at the national and provincial levels to ensure that annual work plans, budgets,
and staffing arrangements continue to support implementation of the overall CAPE 2000 Strategy. In
this regard, there are already renewed commitments of agencies at the chief executive level and
revitalization of the Cape Coordinating Committee (CCC). There is no plan for a “Phase 2? GEF-
funded project as was envisaged when the BCSD Project was designed, since the Project has
achieved its mainstreaming objective with considerable success, so that future CAPE Strategy
implementation will rely upon regular governmental processes and budget lines.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

                                                   12
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

45.     As noted above, the BCSD Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support the
conservation of the Cape Floristic Region and adjacent marine environment by laying a sound
foundation for scaling up and replicating successful Project outcomes, to be achieved through the
two Project sub-objectives of (i) laying the foundations for mainstreaming biodiversity into the
economy and (ii) by undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations in selected
biophysical, socio-economic, and institutional contexts with a view to scaling these up. The PDO,
design of components, and implementation activities remained fully consistent with--and indeed
helped to shape--South African provincial and national environmental management priorities. The
Project has made a substantial contribution to natural resources and biodiversity conservation in
South Africa. It has helped to raise public awareness and understanding of the importance of nature
conservation. It has also strengthened national and provincial institutional capacity and cooperation
between different government agencies and with other partners. The Project was successful in
meeting its objectives and it has established a sound foundation and enabling environment for
strengthened management of biodiversity conservation, both within and outside of protected areas.
The Project has also successfully piloted initiatives to mainstream biodiversity issues into (i)
government policy, through tax incentives and (ii) development activities, through spatial
development plans and biodiversity-friendly businesses and production systems (see Annex 2 for
some examples).

46.     The Project reflected strategic objectives and activities identified in the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time of preparation. It remained highly relevant for the actual
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) priorities for the period 2008-2010 with regard to (i)
environment and natural resource management; (ii) eradication of poverty; (iii) overcoming the
legacy of the apartheid regime and the reduction of inequality in South Africa and the region; and
(iv) increasing the capacity and efficiency for public service delivery. In addition to improving
natural resource management, both within and outside protected areas, the project was able to engage
a wide range of stakeholders, including local communities and disadvantaged groups to broaden the
conservation community. Successful partnerships and linkages to local municipalities (such as the
City of Cape Town) and government programs (such as Working for Water) have helped to
mainstream biodiversity issues into regular development programs and planning.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

47.     The Project has been Satisfactory in achieving its Project Development Objective (PDO) and
has made a major contribution towards achieving the longer-term Global Environmental Objective
(GEO). It has established a solid foundation for the long-term conservation of the Cape Floristic
Region (CFR) and adjacent marine environment, in line with the CAPE Program. The GEF
investment has been used effectively to put in place policies and pilot programs that catalyze and
drive implementation of the CAPE Program to promote the conservation of globally important
biodiversity by emphasizing the linkages between healthy ecosystems and economic development.
The Project has laid the foundations for mainstreaming biodiversity into the economy through the
development and application of tools for sustainable land use, along with piloting of small-scale
projects that deliver social benefits through biodiversity-friendly activities (see Annex 2 for
examples). These activities build a secure foundation for further implementation of the overarching
20-year conservation and development strategy for the CAPE Program, with the next phase of
consolidation expected to be implemented and resourced primarily through regular government
programs and budgets. Although some activities involving aquatic (freshwater, estuarine, and
marine) ecosystems and watershed catchments were substantially revised at the MTR to make them
more feasible to implement, the Project nonetheless managed to attain tangible progress in these
areas and the overall PDO was still achieved to a Satisfactory extent.
                                                 13
48.    Mainstreaming Biodiversity into the Economy. The Project was successful in establishing
a foundation to mainstream biodiversity through strengthening institutional capacity and building
partnerships between traditional conservation agencies and other sectors, including local
governments (particularly municipalities) and planning agencies (such as DEADP). Improved
management of biodiversity information and fine-scale biodiversity planning have been incorporated
into spatial development planning at the municipal level and are thus successfully inserting
biodiversity considerations into local development plans. Outside of protected areas, partnerships and
collaboration with private landowners are reducing the impact of intensive agricultural activities,
such as potato farming and vineyards, and are thus helping to protect the remaining pockets of
endangered natural habitats, such as unique sandveld vegetation. Strategic partnerships between
BCSD and other sources of conservation funding, such as the Table Mountain Fund and CEPF, have
helped to promote new initiatives such as Biodiversity and Business (Annex 2). These initiatives
have provided new livelihood opportunities for local communities linked to the biodiversity
economy, including more sustainable tourism and natural resources harvests.

49.     New Models for Biodiversity Management. The Project was successful in expanding the
area of terrestrial habitats under conservation management through expansion of traditional protected
areas and establishment of three mega-reserves (Bavianskloof, Garden Route, and Cederberg) with
connecting corridors between the mountain and lowland habitats to the sea. Component 4 (Protected
Areas) was allocated almost half of the Bank-GEF resources and supported site-based interventions
in the four mega-reserves through different project partners: Wilderness Foundation and Eastern
Cape Parks Board for Bavianskloof, SANParks for Garden Route, and Cape Nature for both
Cederberg and Kogelberg. These initiatives were complemented by additional support from CEPF
for the Gouritz Initiative. All of these areas have very high biodiversity conservation value. The total
number of hectares under formal conservation agreements in the Kogelberg, Cederberg,
Baviaanskloof, Gouritz, Garden Route, and South West Lowlands almost doubled from 1,054,033 ha
to 1,953,246 ha--exceeding the original target of 1,854,033 ha.

50.     Although originally the Project proposed to establish two freshwater, two estuarine, and two
clusters of marine protected areas, this objective was revised at the MTR to (i) drop establishment of
the freshwater and estuarine reserves and (ii) focus on improved participatory planning to manage
two clusters of marine reserves, off the Kogelberg and Garden Route. WWF-South Africa was
engaged to undertake participatory planning and zoning of the Kogelberg Marine Protected Area
(MPA); the declaration and full co-management of this important marine park is now expected in
2011, with support from the WWF-Honda Marine Program. The framework developed under the
Project to prepare the Integrated Coastal Management Plans for the Kogelberg and Garden Route
MPAs is now being used as the minimum requirement for preparing other MPA proposals around the
South African coastline.

51.     Off-reserve conservation stewardship programs with private landowners and communities
were supported both through Cape Nature and SANParks in Western Cape. Under the Project, best
practice guidelines for stewardship arrangements were developed with involvement from a large
number of stakeholders and are now being adopted in Eastern Cape and other South African
provinces. Significant additional conservation outcomes have also been achieved through the
development and implementation of best practice guidelines for the management of fire and non-
native species in high-biodiversity watersheds in the Western Cape and Eastern Cape provinces.

52.     The BCSD Project met most of its targets and exceeded many of them, with significant
increases in land under conservation management, within governmental protected areas as well as
private lands under conservation stewardship arrangements. In addition to specific project-level
deliverables, it has also contributed to a number of national and provincial policy interventions,
                                                  14
including environmental impact assessment regulations, biodiversity offset guidelines, land use
planning and spatial development guidelines, bio-regional planning, stewardship guidelines, and tax
incentives linked to conservation. These policies and supporting tools are likely to have long-term
impacts for conservation, both in the CFR and more widely in South Africa.

53.     Governance of the Project was complex and multi-layered, but nevertheless worked
satisfactorily. The fact that the project was embedded in the wider CAPE Program ensured a high
level of involvement by many stakeholders at both the provincial and national levels. Partnerships
and collaboration have been a hallmark of the project--between different government organizations,
between government and NGOs, between the World Bank and UNDP as the GEF Implementing
Agencies, between SANBI as Executing Agency and the sub-Executing Agencies (CN, ECPB, and
SANParks), between the national and local governments, and between the other stakeholders
involved (including local communities, private landowners, and NGOs). This cooperation bodes well
for the future sustainability of Project outcomes; many Project activities, including bio-regional
planning and private land stewardship, have already been institutionalized into regular government
programs, within the CFR and extended to other regions of South Africa.

3.3 Efficiency

54.     The Project was a stand-alone GEF project with two GEF grants (US$9 million through
World Bank and $2 million through UNDP), along with counterpart funding from several national
government agencies and co-funding from other organizations including NGOs. The GEF funds
implemented through both the World Bank and UNDP were fully disbursed, mostly as planned for
each component. As Annex 1 shows, the actual GEF funding for each of the six project components
was very close to the amounts estimated at appraisal. The largest variation was that the GEF funds
actually spent on Component 3 (Program Management and Coordination) were 15 percent greater
than the appraisal estimate (1.27 million spent vs. 1.10 million planned). This increase in project
management costs can be attributed to the higher-than-expected demand for CCU assistance from the
executing agencies as well as other participating governmental and non-governmental entities; this
high demand is viewed as a positive indication of strong interest among national and local
government agencies, NGOs, and landowners in carrying out specific Project-promoted activities.
Even so, Project management and coordination costs amounted to only 11 percent of total GEF
(World Bank and UNDP) Project costs.

55.     The available data strongly suggest that implementation of the BCSD Project was (i) efficient
in terms of leveraging GEF funds and (ii) cost-effective in terms of achieving the PDO in general and
specific biodiversity conservation targets in particular. With respect to the leveraging of available
GEF funds, this was expected at appraisal to be at a ratio of 4:1—specifically, Government
assembling a total of US$44.13 million in counterpart (SANBI, CN, ECPB, and SANParks) and
other co-funding (from other sources), in addition to the $11 million from GEF. Although not all of
the originally expected sources of co-funding came through, the Project nonetheless succeeded in
leveraging nearly double the originally planned amount of co-funding: $51.40 million was actually
obtained versus $44.13 million planned. Much of this co-funding came from regular government
budgets, where programs were re-aligned to target BCSD priority areas, from a thematic as well as
geographical standpoint. In addition to the Project co-funding obtained from national, provincial, and
local governments and public universities, some $12 million came from NGOs and the private sector
(Tortell 2010). From a GEF resource mobilization perspective, the Project was highly efficient with a
relatively modest GEF contribution leveraging substantial co-funding, much of it from regular
government budgets and programs that are expected to continue implementing further the CAPE
Strategy.


                                                 15
56.      With respect to achieving Project objectives, the overall PDO was achieved to a Satisfactory
extent, as noted above. Moreover, most component-specific targets were achieved and many were
exceeded, as detailed in Annex 7. Since these targets were achieved and exceeded with the level of
GEF funding available at appraisal, this indicates that the Project was cost-effective relative to
expectations. In terms of incremental land area conserved, some 71,000 hectares under formal
conservation arrangements (on public and private lands) in the Kogelberg, Cedarberg, Baviaanskloof,
Gouritz, Garden Route, and South West Lowlands were added under the Project, exceeding the target
of 40,000 ha. For the endangered and critically endangered habitat types (the highest terrestrial
biodiversity conservation priority), the incremental area brought under conservation through the
Project was 45,488 ha, exceeding the target of 40,287 ha. Considering that only a portion of the total
Project investment of US$62.4 million (including $11 million from GEF) was directed towards
terrestrial conservation areas, the Project appears to be quite cost-effective in terms of hectares
conserved per dollar. The aquatic biodiversity conservation results were less impressive, though
nonetheless tangible in terms of the improved management of estuaries and Marine Protected Areas.

57.     In accordance with GEF requirements, Project preparation included an Incremental Cost
Analysis to assess the incremental GEF costs of achieving global biodiversity benefits. These
incremental costs were calculated to be US$11 million (World Bank 2004). The biodiversity-related
global environmental benefits identified for each component in the Project Appraisal Document have
mostly been fully achieved (details in Annex 2).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

58.     In accordance with the PDO, the Project succeeded in laying a sound foundation for
implementation of the first phase of the Cape Strategy by (i) mainstreaming biodiversity into the
economy and (ii) undertaking carefully targeted conservation demonstrations in selected biophysical,
socio-economic, and institutional contexts with a view to scaling these up. The implementation of an
overarching 20-year conservation and development strategy has started and is linked to national and
provincial policies adopted as a result of the CAPE Strategy and the BCSD Project. Through
development of plans, strategies, methodologies, and pilots, the Project has developed useful and
accessible tools and guidelines to direct biodiversity conservation in the CFR, including for the next
phase of implementation of the Cape Action Plan. Many of these activities are now being replicated,
both within the CFR and at the national level. Project results are still often intermediate at this stage,
but impacts are expected to accrue through the use of Project products and the enhanced capacity and
partnerships between the executing agencies, other government agencies, local municipalities, and
participating NGOs. By emphasizing the linkages between healthy ecosystems and economic
development, the BCSD Project has laid a sound foundation to maintain and enhance the
conservation of globally important biodiversity in the CFR.

59.     The Project strengthened collaboration and synergies between agencies to better define roles
and responsibilities for efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It created an enabling environment which
allowed realization of long-term policy changes now being applied throughout South Africa. The
project was able to leverage considerable funding for activities that enhanced biodiversity
conservation from government agencies whose primary focus is not biodiversity, including the
national Department of Water Affairs and Forests (DWAF) and local municipalities. This served
further to mainstream biodiversity considerations within regular government programs and planning.
Many of the activities initiated under the project have already been institutionalized within regular
government programs and are likely to be sustained post-project. For example, as an outgrowth of
the BCSD Project, the Province of Eastern Cape recently approved a Bio-regional Plan as the
framework for future spatial development. The BCSD executing agencies have already committed to
a second-phase, 5-year Action Plan for further implementation of the CAPE Program. The next 5-
                                                   16
year Action Plan is expected to be carried out and funded primarily through ongoing government
programs and budgets. Given the (considerable, though not unlimited) resources available, along
with the generally strong South African commitment to biodiversity conservation and sustainable
management of natural resources as a necessary underpinning for sustainable development, it seems
reasonably likely that project outcomes will be sustained and expanded.

60.     Based on the analysis and evidence in this report, the overall Project Rating is considered to
be Satisfactory. An independent Terminal Evaluation of the BCSD Project (Tortell 2010),
undertaken to meet UNDP requirements, confirms the main findings of this ICR and the overall
rating of Satisfactory (details in Annex 8).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

61.     The Project was funded though GEF resources with an explicit emphasis on global
biodiversity benefits. Nonetheless, it was always anticipated that government co-funding would
provide poverty reduction, gender, and social development benefits. The judicious use of other
government funds (Extended Public Works Programs including Working for Water and Working for
Wetlands) created additional employment opportunities. Local and disadvantaged communities have
also benefited from income generation activities based on nature protection and the biodiversity
economy. Mobilization of complementary small grants through the CEPF and Table Mountain Fund
promoted (i) public awareness-raising, such as educational materials and NGO activities and (ii)
biodiversity-friendly income-generating activities such as bee-keeping, sustainable harvesting of
native rooibos (used to make rooibos tea, a popular beverage in South Africa and even
internationally), donkey cart tourism, and small ecotourism initiatives. These associated activities,
leveraged through the Project, played an important role in local social development and poverty
reduction and promoted strong local support. Over the Project period, some 181,276 person-days per
year of employment created were associated with conservation. Annual stakeholder gatherings
encouraged sharing of experiences and built a strong constituency for conservation between local
communities, NGOs, and government agencies.

62.      From a gender perspective, Project operations have mirrored national conditions in South
Africa. Women have been prominent in Project management and implementation at all levels, from
the CCU to executive roles in implementing agencies and community-related activities, training, and
institutional development. Women have a significant voice in local and national decision-making
related to all aspects of the CAPE Program.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

63.      South Africa’s conservation agencies are generally regarded as some of the most advanced on
the continent but changing social, political, and economic realities have presented new challenges for
land management and conservation. Accordingly, the Project invested in institutional strengthening
for all involved agencies to enhance cooperation and strategic planning for broad stakeholder
engagement and effective conservation in the CFR. The Project provided significant resources for
institutional strengthening and collaboration including capacity-building programs aimed at all level
of stakeholders, from executing agencies to training for local government staff, private landowners,
and communities. Project support for key staff in SANBI and other executing agencies, including
bio-regional planning and biodiversity information in SANBI, and stewardship positions at Cape
Nature and SANParks, enabled these programs to succeed. Dedicated support for staff to work with
local government agencies, municipalities, and environmental consultants to provide training and
ensure dissemination of products such as fine-scale planning were also critical to the uptake of these
                                                  17
products and their widespread adoption in spatial development frameworks and environmental
assessments. The Project was also successful in brokering partnerships and consensus on complex
issues between different institutions across the CFR. The culture of cooperation that has emerged is
likely to be sustained long after Project closing.

64.     There have been significant institutional changes during the course of the Project. The NBI
has become SANBI, with a greatly expanded national mandate for biodiversity conservation which
builds on SANBI’s experience in executing the BCSD Project.

65.     WCNCB has become Cape Nature (CN) and has weathered some critical institutional
restructuring and tough budgetary challenges. The BCSD program has been pivotal in CN’s
realignment of responsibilities; even with more limited resources than originally expected, CN has
built up an effective program to strengthen conservation practices, both within public protected areas
and in the surrounding production landscape through stewardship agreements with private
landowners and local communities. The stewardship program pioneered by CN during the Project is
now being rolled out by DEAT as a national program. CN has retained core trained staff from the
Project, even when they are assigned to new responsibilities. It has also institutionalized
responsibilities for estuaries and coastal management under a new Estuaries, Islands, and Marine
Program, even though this program is still under-funded. However, a key question mark remains
over the institutional home for the fine-scale planning that was with CN during the Project.

66.     Eastern Cape Parks Board (ECPB) was formed in 2007 and has taken over from Wilderness
Foundation the role of managing the Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve as well as other provincial
protected areas. ECPB has enthusiastically adopted the management of the Mega-Reserve and the
stewardship program piloted under BCSD and has allocated dedicated staff resources to this
program; it plans to roll out the stewardship program to the rest of Eastern Cape. ECPB has made
substantial progress since its establishment and the BCSD appears to have contributed significantly
to the creation of an emerging efficient conservation agency in Eastern Cape. Support from the
Wilderness Foundation during the early years of the BCSD and after the handover of management
responsibilities has been pivotal to the success of the Baviaanskloof initiative and is an excellent
example of a successful public-private partnership.

67.     South African National Parks (SANParks) has shown the least institutional change as a result
of the BCSD Project, with its primary focus still remaining within protected area borders. Pursuant to
a recent internal policy decision, SANParks has dropped the stewardship program that was initiated
and supported as part of the Project, in order to focus more exclusively on its protected area network
rather than conservation more broadly. This is disappointing in terms of the Project’s focus on
promoting biodiversity conservation at the landscape level, rather than only within the protected
areas system; much of the threatened biodiversity within the CFR still occurs largely or exclusively
outside of public protected areas. Nonetheless, SANParks is continuing to work outside its protected
areas through other institutions such as the Fire Prevention Authorities; it will also pay extra
attention to off-park activities as prescribed through the Buffer Zone Act (recent, national-level
legislation that was not directly linked to the BCSD Project).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

68.     The strengthened partnerships and collaboration fostered through the BCSD Project have
helped to rescue and turn around some of the weaker sub-components. For example, the engagement
of WWF-SA to support participatory planning in marine protected areas has contributed to progress
at the Project sites, while also influencing coastal management planning nationwide. Similarly, the
delay in establishing estuarine protected areas has been partly compensated by the preparation of 11
Estuary Management Plans (almost twice the project target), which focus on improved management
                                                 18
and conservation. These were prepared with the strong participation of local stakeholders and already
have some municipality support for implementation.

69.    The BCSD Project has had far-reaching policy implications beyond the CFR. Several
programs and planning initiatives tested under the Project have now been adopted nationally,
including the stewardship program for private landowners, tracking of management effectiveness in
the entire national protected area system, and bio-regional planning as a basis for spatial
development planning. The experience gained by SANBI as an executing agency for the Project have
enabled it to become a strong national institute, promoting biodiversity conservation across the
whole country. SANBI is now also engaged in land use planning and resource management in other
biomes outside the CFR, as well as in new initiatives linked to ecosystem-based approaches to
climate change.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

70.     A final Project Workshop to discuss outputs, outcomes and next steps was held in May 2010,
in conjunction with the preparation of this ICR. Proceedings have been published in the document
Celebrating Conservation, produced by the CCU. During the course of the Project, many stakeholder
workshops were supported on a wide range of topics, from discussions on resource management and
legislation to zoning of particular conservation areas. Annual stakeholder meetings also helped to
disseminate good practice and lessons learned. A wide range of stakeholders has benefitted from the
Project, ranging from national and local government staff and academics to tourism-based businesses
and local communities. Meetings with stakeholder groups during the ICR assessment revealed a high
level of community awareness with very active local groups confirming the importance of the Project
for these groups.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

71.      The BCSD Project was somewhat unusual for a GEF-funded biodiversity conservation
project. Rather than focus on strengthening management at one or a few sites, the Project took a
much broader approach to biodiversity conservation, working with multiple institutions and partners
to impact policies, programs, and practices to protect biodiversity across the whole CFR, both within
formal protected areas and the broader production landscape. The Project has been a cutting-edge
initiative in both the World Bank and GEF portfolios, serving as a good example of mainstreaming
biodiversity issues into regular government development programs and planning. It has demonstrated
how relatively modest GEF resources can leverage effective outcomes when building on strong
partnerships and shared priorities. The priorities establishing during preparation of the Cape Strategy
have provided a common framework that enabled multiple entities to align their work plans during
Project implementation. The main executing agencies (including SANBI, CN, and ECPB have
already committed to a second phase of support for the CAPE Strategy and integrated such activities
in their future work plans and budgets.

72.     The Project has laid a sound foundation for maintaining the unique biodiversity characteristic
of the CFR. Some problems still remain, such as with (i) staffing issues at a few individual sites
(such as the Kogelberg Marine Protected Area) and (ii) less than full institutionalization of key
functions (such as fine-scale land use planning). However, there has been strong adoption overall of
Project-promoted good practices by government agencies, landowners, and other decision-makers
within the CFR. Indeed, some of guidelines and good practices developed under the Project are
already (i) being replicated in other provinces of South Africa (such as private land stewardship in
Kwa-Zulu Natal) and (ii) informing new biodiversity conservation projects outside the CFR, such as
                                                  19
the UNDP-GEF supported bio-regional planning in the South African grasslands biome. Overall, the
likelihood of sustainability and replication of Project-initiated activities is considered to be high and
the risk to the development outcome is therefore assessed to be Low.

73.      Institutional Sustainability. All executing agencies and partner institutions, including
associated NGOs, were actively involved in the Cape Implementation Committee that steered Project
implementation, signaling strong institutional support. Staff from different institutions have also been
actively engaged as members of task teams for specific themes. The vast majority of task teams are
expected to continue with their program of collaboration following BCSD closure. The Project has
helped to strengthen and rationalize Cape Nature and was pivotal in helping to support the new
Eastern Cape Parks Board (ECPB) to become an effective conservation agency, working both in
protected areas and off-reserve through stewardship agreements. The Project supported some key
staff positions and activities. Many Project activities have now been internalized, institutionalized,
and mainstreamed as core activities of key agencies, and institutional sustainability appears likely.
SANBI has absorbed key staff positions and committed to maintain the core CCU to initiate the
follow up phase of implementation of the Cape Strategy. Other responsible agencies have proven
technical capacity and staff in place for conservation and natural resource management, and are
thereby able to replicate successful interventions. The learning network approach has also been
institutionalized in many partner organizations. However, some activities, such as fine-scale
biodiversity planning and further expansion of the stewardship program in Western Cape, are still
dependent on funds becoming available and their financial sustainability is not yet fully secure.

74.     Ecological Sustainability. This Project built on the first GEF Biodiversity project in South
Africa—the Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project--which was critical in identifying
conservation priorities in the CFR and for developing and socializing the Cape Action Plan. The
BCSD Project has further refined conservation planning, promoting biodiversity considerations in
spatial planning and water resource management. It has also leveraged the alignment of normal
government budgets with CAPE objectives. The prospects for ecological sustainability are good with
the Project-supported private lands stewardship program, adoption of protected area management
plans, the widespread use of the PAMETT to promote effective management of protected areas, and
new models for biodiversity conservation that include the management of marine resources. Strong
partnerships with other government agencies, especially Water Affairs, have contributed to
mainstreaming by promoting the key role that natural habitats play in securing water supplies and
sustainable development. Ecological sustainability therefore appears likely.

75.     Social Sustainability. The economic benefits from conservation have been well documented
from various Project-supported publications (see Annex 9). Effective pilots are already in place
promoting livelihoods under the biodiversity economy. In particular, the alignment of employment
opportunities through governmental poverty relief programs and small grants with BCSD
conservation priorities has emphasized the synergies between conservation and social welfare. The
project succeeded in establishing and strengthening partnerships with private landowners and civil
society, through regular stakeholder forums, capacity building, stewardship arrangements and local
management committees, as well as through economic benefits and livelihood activities. Successful
pilots on participatory management of marine resources and local stakeholder involvement in
management of watersheds and estuaries are all likely to encourage local ownership and social
sustainability. The enthusiastic adoption of fine-scale biodiversity planning into spatial development
frameworks at the municipality level bodes well for furthering local ownership to promote
conservation and restoration of the CFR.

76.     Financial Sustainability. One of the original Project activities was to devise mechanisms for
the financial sustainability of individual protected areas. BCSD-funded business plans for invasive
species and fire management have helped to leverage additional resources from national programs
                                                   20
such as Working for Water, Working on Fire, and expanded public works to target resources to
critical biodiversity sites and high-value water catchments. Strong collaboration between agencies
and priority-setting through thematic task teams has helped to better target resources from
government employment programs to areas that serve conservation, as well as the water catchment
and employment agendas. The BCSD was already highly successful in leveraging other non-
governmental resources; a CEPF consolidation grant ($1.65 million over three years) and TMF will
continue to support some key activities. The BCSD provided seed funding to WWF-South Africa for
a MPA program which provided the impetus for a major WWF-Honda Marine Program that will
continue to provide support to some project MPAs. Prior to project closure, a Conservation
Marketplace was organized to enable project participants to “market? their project concepts for new
funding to continue activities beyond the project. A new Dryland Fund established by the
Development Bank of South Africa (R50 million) is expected to provide resources for additional
small grants programs at the national level.

77.      Government and other Stakeholder Ownership and Commitment. The RSA Government
shows a strong commitment to continue with the implementation of the 20-year Conservation
Strategy. There is strong interest among a large number of government agencies and other
stakeholders (including SANBI, CN, ECPB, and TMF) to participate in the next phase of the CAPE
Program. In 2008, the CAPE Partnership Program, within which the BCSD Project was nested,
carried out a pathfinder study (Steyn 2008) to ascertain how it intends to sustain the conservation
gains made in the CAPE Program. Cape Nature has developed a detailed business case and Mid-term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) submission, seeking substantive additional human and financial
resources to fulfill its mandate into the future. The ECPB has started a similar process, while SANBI
had already included many aspects of the CAPE Program into its MTEF cycle. The sister UNDP-
funded ABI project with SANParks’ leadership has been spearheading a process to develop a
district-level collaborative governance system. The City of Cape Town and Nelson Mandela
Metropolitan Municipality have both taken steps to mainstream CAPE work within their
municipalities. Civil society organizations have taken steps to diversify funding sources to secure
their ability to continue future work. TMF has played a key role in this regard. Pathfinder discussions
have resulted in signatory partners committing to the next phase of CAPE, with an emphasis on local
rather than international funding.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.     The BCSD Project design was based on the Cape Action Plan, which, in turn, had been
developed under the previous GEF-supported Cape Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project. The
BCSD Project was complex in design, with six components and four executing agencies (SANBI,
CN, ECPB, and SANParks). Given the high level of capacity within SANBI and particularly the
CCU, this complexity turned out to be quite manageable; it also contributed to Project success by
drawing on a wide spectrum of partners and increasing ownership of the CAPE Strategy among a
broad range of stakeholders, including sectoral government agencies and municipalities. Project
targets were ambitious and not always realistic, particularly with respect to the rapid establishment of
so many new freshwater, estuarine, and marine protected areas. The World Bank’s assessment of the
required institutional and financial capacity of the relevant agencies to achieve this target proved
overly optimistic; the targets for the aquatic protected areas were thus revised downward during the
MTR. This stands out as the main design shortcoming of an otherwise highly successful project.
Accordingly, the Bank’s performance in ensuring the Project’s Quality at Entry is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.
                                                   21
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

79.    World Bank staff provided regular (generally twice per year) supervision inputs during
Project implementation, with additional support from the Pretoria office on financial management
and procurement matters as needed. At the beginning and during the main implementation phase of
the Project, the World Bank’s Task Team Leader (TTL) was located in the Country Office; later, the
TTL was based in Washington but field supervision continued on a regular basis and the TTL
maintained strong contact with the CCU. Findings and recommendations from supervision missions
have been documented in detailed Aide Memoires throughout Project implementation. The Bank and
UNDP engaged in joint supervision missions so that Project components were closely coordinated.
The Project benefited from constructive criticism from the independent Mid-term Evaluation (MTE)
required for UNDP-supported projects, as well as the Bank’s own MTR. Recommendations from
both were incorporated into project revisions at the MTR. The MTR offered an opportunity to re-
focus on components that were lagging and put in place new institutional arrangements to ensure
delivery, such as the engagement of WWF in the MPA sub-component.

80.    Fiduciary aspects of the Project were supervised partly in conjunction with routine
supervision missions and partly by regional procurement and financial management staff conducting
separate visits to the CCU on an as-needed basis. Supervision missions included experienced social
safeguards specialists to follow up on the resettlement issue at Coleske.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

81.     Overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank had a strong and responsive
relationship with the responsible government agencies, CCU, and UNDP, which facilitated project
implementation. After the MTR, the Bank and UNDP teams worked proactively with the executing
agencies and the CCU to focus the Project on implementing a number of lagging activities, for
example marine conservation, and on the consolidation of key outcomes. The project was an
excellent example of collaboration and partnerships, including partnerships between the Bank and
UNDP and the Bank and executing agencies.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

82.     By adopting the Cape Action Plan and undertaking its implementation, the Government of
South Africa recognized the high biodiversity value of the CFR and the essential inter-institutional
collaboration necessary to mobilize resources for effective and strategic conservation action.
Government commitment has remained strong with expansion of the biodiversity mandate of SANBI
and additional bio-regional planning exercises initiated within South Africa during the life of the
project. At the sub-national level, various municipal government bodies have become active
participants in CAPE Program activities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
                                                22
83.     The overall performance of the implementing agency, SANBI, and especially its CAPE
Coordination Unit (CCU), was highly satisfactory. The leadership, cohesion, and professional skills
displayed by the CCU were integral to the successful implementation of the Project. The CCU
successfully (i) coordinated the participation of four executing agencies and numerous other
participating entities (governmental and non-governmental) in a complex and multi-layered Project;
(ii) mobilized co-funding from diverse sources, well in excess of Project targets; and (iii) maintained
seamless continuity of functions, even when key staff moved on or took extended leave. The
performance of the other sub-executing agencies (Cape Nature, Eastern Cape Parks Board, and
SANParks) was satisfactory, with most Project activities delivered and targets often exceeded. The
Project assisted in improving the capacity of Eastern Cape Parks Board; as a result, Project activities
undertaken by the NGO Wilderness Foundation in the Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve were later
transferred to ECPB. Despite suffering some unforeseen budget cuts, Cape Nature successfully
implemented a broad range of Project activities, even though the overly ambitious marine
conservation activities needed to be scaled back somewhat. SANParks displayed high capacity in
implementing the Garden Route and other Project activities, although (counter to initial expectations)
it did not continue to promote private lands stewardship outside of formal protected areas. Taking
into account all four agencies, the overall rating of executing agencies’ performance is Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

84.     The performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory, in recognition of the satisfactory
performance of Government and executing agencies, including the highly satisfactory performance
of the CCU within SANBI. Moreover, key Government agencies have taken important, positive steps
to follow up with the next phase of the CAPE Program and thereby to sustain and consolidate Project
achievements.

6. Lessons Learned

85.   The Project provides many useful lessons from both a World Bank and a GEF perspective.
The main lessons include:

         a. Building on Partnerships. A key ingredient to success was the fact that the Project built
on partnerships, including (i) conservation planning and stakeholder support built through the Cape
Peninsula Biodiversity Conservation Project (South Africa’s first GEF-funded project) and (ii) a
strong conservation constituency fostered over the years by regular meetings of the conservation
community at the Fynbos Forum. The Project also benefited enormously from partnerships with
other World Bank- and GEF-supported initiatives, such as CEPF and the Table Mountain Fund
(small grants program). For example, CEPF resources were used to support the establishment and
operation of the Cape Coordinating Unit at NBI (later SANBI) in the transition phase between the
Cape Peninsula and the BCSD projects. This enabled immediate follow-up and the piloting of some
activities which were then expanded under the BCSD. The close linkages and alignment of these
various programs enabled rapid mobilization of additional resources to key areas of need, such as
support to civil society and capacity building; they will contribute to further consolidation of good
practices and scaling-up of successful activities following Project closure.

       b. Catalytic Role of GEF. The Project demonstrated the catalytic effect that strategic use of
incremental GEF resources can have in bringing about substantial change. Although the total Project
budget was relatively small (US$9 million of GEF funding through the World Bank and another $2
million through UNDP), it was able to leverage considerable co-funding and support from
government and NGO sources through collaborative partnerships and representation of different
                                               23
agencies on coordinating committees. The Project was designed and implemented with the donor and
governmental financing situation in mind, so that it could focus on incremental benefits that
otherwise would not likely be attained. Close collaboration and synergies with the CEPF and TMF
leveraged small grants for civil society, capacity building, and key positions with executing agencies.
Effective mobilization of co-funding to support the CAPE 2000 Strategy was enhanced by the CCU
acting as the local coordinating unit for the CEPF Cape Floristic Region Hotspot; also by
representation of WfW and TMF on the CAPE Implementation Committee. Government agency
buy-in and ownership of the CAPE Program enabled effective alignment of earmarked government
budgets against priority CAPE activities.

       c. Adaptive Management. Project implementation involved considerable use of adaptive
management to adjust to changing conditions, unforeseen constraints, and new opportunities. For
example, the originally planned activities for freshwater, estuarine, and marine conservation were re-
adjusted at MTR to reflect institutional and budgetary constraints, as well as realities on the ground.
Following the MTR, the newly-defined activities were implemented with considerable success. The
willingness to embrace adaptive management of Project activities was evident in the CCU and
Project executing agencies, as well as among the World Bank and UNDP task teams and
management.

       d. Consistent Implementation Support. The CCU provided steady Project leadership,
enabling the four executing agencies and multiple partners and stakeholders to carry out their roles
successfully. The Project also benefited greatly from the consistent implementation support that was
provided by both the World Bank and UNDP. These two GEF Implementing Agencies worked
together very closely during Project preparation and implementation, with joint project visits and
aide memoires, as well as fully shared objectives. The strong and steady implementation support
helped the Project to overcome key challenges, such as the need to re-focus the aquatic biodiversity
and watershed management activities during the MTR.

        e. Managing Project Complexity. Although the Project design was ambitious and complex,
by engaging multiple agencies around the core objectives of the CAPE Action Plan, the Project was
able to bring multiple partners together and enhance stakeholder ownership, collaboration, and
efficiency. The complex Project design and implementing arrangements would not have worked
without a strong and effective coordinating unit. The CCU within SANBI played a critical role in
building strong collaboration and driving information exchange among the partners. One of the
greatest strengths of the CCU was that it maintained its role as a facilitating and coordinating unit,
rather than taking over as an executing agency. The experience of this Project demonstrates that
project complexity is not necessarily a bad thing, provided that adequate capacity exists for effective
project coordination.

         f. Longer-term, Programmatic Engagement. Achieving success in biodiversity
conservation—and many other aspects of sustainable development—typically requires sustained
commitment over a relatively long time frame. It often takes longer-term engagement to bring about
meaningful change on the part of government agencies, local communities, the private sector, and
other decision-makers. The Project was designed as a five-year time slice of a much longer CAPE
Program, intended to run through 2024. Extending the Project to six years enabled certain key
activities to be completed. Interestingly, NBI (later SANBI) initially requested a Project design of
five years rather than six, due to concerns that implementation would proceed more slowly if the
partner entities knew that more time was available.

       g. Mainstreaming through Outreach and Dissemination. The BCSD Project has been
regarded as an example of best practice for mainstreaming biodiversity in the GEF portfolio. A key
element of successful mainstreaming is effective dissemination of information, so that it will actually
                                                  24
be used by the intended decision-makers. For example, the development of useful tools, such as fine-
scale biodiversity planning, is not sufficient on its own to guarantee their use. Accordingly, the
Project devoted staff time and funding to actively promote the use and uptake of these tools by the
relevant provincial and municipal planning departments. Aggressive dissemination of Project-
generated information also helped to facilitate outcomes that went beyond the original targets, such
as the recent approval of national legislation providing tax rebates for conservation on private lands.
Many of the tools developed and lessons learned through the BCSD Project are applicable to
biodiversity projects elsewhere, within southern Africa and even worldwide. With this in mind,
SANBI (in partnership with DEA and UNDP) recently published the book, Biodiversity for
Development: South Africa’s Landscape Approach to Conserving Biodiversity and Promoting
Ecosystem Resilience (SANBI 2010a), on the lessons learned from the CAPE Program in general and
the BCSD Project in particular.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

86.     As the lead executing agency for the BCSD Project, SANBI provided comments this ICR in
through a response letter dated April 15, 2011 (Annex 7). The letter indicates SANBI’s broad
agreement with the findings of the ICR. The letter also emphasizes the measures that SANBI and its
partner agencies have taken to ensure the long-term institutional and financial sustainability of the
CAPE Program. World Bank management fully concurs with SANBI’s comments and recognizes
that although the BCSD Project has closed, the CAPE Program is expected to continue with
sustained Government support through various agencies at the national and sub-national levels. The
Bank also looks forward to future opportunities to support biodiversity conservation in South Africa
through the next tranche of GEF (GEF-5) and perhaps also mainstreamed through IBRD-financed
development projects where feasible.

87.      The CAPE Coordination Unit (CCU) embedded within SANBI has also produced a Self-
Assessment on Project Results Achieved, which serves as the Government’s ICR for the CAPE
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project. This Self-Assessment is presented
in the form of a 9-page table, immediately following the SANBI letter (Annex 7). Bank management
broadly agrees with the CCU’s Self Assessment, which emphasizes the Project’s positive aspects but
is nonetheless well-founded and accurate. The Self Assessment correctly notes that most Project
targets were achieved and often exceeded. Those activities where performance was lagging were re-
oriented in the course of the Project (particularly during the MTR), with funds re-allocated within the
same component to more readily implementable activities. This is a successful example of adaptive
project management. The Self Assessment also points to other Project strengths, including (i)
building and leveraging strong partnerships, including with CEPF and TMF; (ii) major advances in
conservation stewardship of private lands—where much of the CFR’s most threatened biodiversity is
located—through on-the-ground stewardship agreements, backed up by supportive tax policies that
the Project catalyzed and influenced; (iii) and an impressive degree of mainstreaming biodiversity
considerations within ongoing governmental programs and initiatives, including land use planning,
fire and invasive species management, and watershed catchment management. The Self Assessment
appropriately highlights the Project’s major advances in the expansion and consolidation of
terrestrial protected areas, which exceeded the original targets. The Project was less highly successful
overall in establishing and strengthening freshwater, estuarine, and marine protected areas, although
some important progress was achieved nonetheless (such as with the Kogelberg MPA); the
conservation of aquatic biodiversity is clearly a challenging area within the CFR that merits further
attention in the years ahead.

                                                  25
(b) Cofinanciers

88.     As co-financier of the BCSD Project, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
provided comments on this ICR report through its letter of April 12, 2011 (Annex 8). The UNDP
letter notes that the findings of this ICR are in substantial harmony with the Terminal Evaluation
Report (TER) commissioned by UNDP. The letter also highlights the constructive collaboration and
collegial approach that characterized the partnership between the World Bank and UNDP for this
Project. For its part, Bank management welcomes and fully agrees with the UNDP comments, and
notes that this Project represents a best-practice example of a highly collaborative partnership
between the two institutions.

89.     The Terminal Evaluation Report (Tortell 2010) is summarized below in Annex 8. Bank
management broadly agrees with the TER findings. Management concurs that the reasons for this
Project’s generally high degree of success include (i) strong ownership of BCSD Project and CAPE
Program objectives by the executing agencies (SANBI, CN, ECPB, and SANParks); (ii) a highly
effective Cape Coordination Unit; (iii) close collaboration between both GEF Implementing
Agencies (World Bank and UNDP); (iv) effective mechanisms for stakeholder participation in
Project-related activities; and (v) strong information management and dissemination. Management
also agrees that the initial Project design had several weaknesses, including (i) the choice and
wording of key Project indicators, some of which did not meet the SMART criteria and (ii) overly
ambitious plans for aquatic biodiversity conservation, including new Marine Protected Areas.
However, these design weaknesses were addressed through adaptive Project management,
particularly a re-orientation of the main under-performing activities during the MTR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

90.    No issues have been raised.




                                               26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                              Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                       Appraisal Estimate       Estimate          Appraisal
            Components                   (US$ millions)       (US$ millions)

                                        Total      GEF        Total     GEF      Total      GEF
        1. INSTITUTIONAL
   STRENGTHENING (UNDP)                 5.80       1.40        7.46     1.40     129         100
        2. CONSERVATION
      EDUCATION (UNDP )                 1.11       0.60        1.70     0.60     153         100
 3. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
 AND COORDINATION (BANK)                1.79       1.10        1.68     1.27      94         115
      4. PROTECTED AREA
     MANAGEMENT (BANK)                  27.72      4.12       30.11     4.11     109         99
     5. ESTABLISHING THE
     FOUNDATIONS OF THE
   BIODIVERSITY ECONOMY                 11.67      2.45       14.32     2.33     123         95
              (BANK)
6. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
              (BANK)                    7.04       1.32        7.13     1.29     101         98

        Total Baseline Cost                55.13   11.00      62.40    11.00     113         100
       Physical Contingencies           0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0           0
         Price Contingencies             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0           0
        Total Project Costs             55.13      11.00      62.40    11.00     113         100
  Project Preparation Facility (PPF)     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0           0
         Front-end fee IBRD             0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00       0           0
     Total Financing Required           55.13      11.00      62.40    11.00     113         100




(b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                              Type of                                       Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate
                                            Cofinancing                                      Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                    44.13          51.40            116
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                           9.00           9.00             100
UN Development Program – GEF                                2.00           2.00             100




                                                    27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.          The Project was an ambitious mix of activities across a range of geographic sites and
thematic areas, requiring effective collaboration between many players. Nevertheless, it showed
good progress on implementation of most components; several key sub-components could be rated as
Highly Satisfactory (see below). The Project included six components and was jointly implemented
by UNDP (Components 1 and 2) and the World Bank (Components 3-6); good collaboration
between the Bank and UNDP, including joint implementation support missions, ensured that the
Project was managed holistically. For completeness, this ICR covers all six components. The
Terminal Evaluation of the whole Project (Tortell 2010), undertaken to meet UNDP requirements, is
consistent with the findings of this ICR (see Annex 8).

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening (GEF: US$1.4 million; Executed by SANBI; Financed
by UNDP):

Rating: Satisfactory

2.    The CAPE Partnership expanded from 18 to 23 signatory partner organizations that are
committed to implementing the CAPE Strategy. The number of stakeholders registered on the CAPE
Program database and receiving the bi-weekly electronic newsletter grew from 1,850 to 3,510-- a
90% increase during the course of project implementation, greatly exceeding the 30% target.

3.      The original Component 1 allocated resources for capacity building for the staff of five new
Water Catchment Agencies, to be established by the national Department of Water Affairs and
Forestry (DWAF). However, these new agencies were much delayed in establishment, with only four
in existence by the end of the project and one operational. Because of these institutional delays
within DWAF, at the MTR the funds initially planned for training of water catchment agencies were
re-allocated within Component 1 to support the development of business cases to the National
Treasury for Cape Nature and Eastern Cape Parks Board.

4.      The BCSD Project was instrumental in informing national capacity programs and
development of individuals to strengthen organizations. Three capacity-building programs were
piloted or expanded through the Project. Some 176 participants took part in the capacity-building
programs on mentoring, stewardship, and environmental education, exceeding the target of 150. The
new mentoring course supported Cape Nature and the City of Cape Town in setting up their own
mentoring programs. SANBI entered into a partnership with the Wildlife Society of South Africa
(WESSA) to expand its offering of the Environmental Educators course. The new Stewardship
Course was taken up by Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in the city of George and is being
offered nationally on an ongoing basis. Lessons from the capacity-building initiatives supported
through BCSD are being fed into the Human Capital Development Program being led by SANBI.

5.       A total of nine Project Developers’ Forums, Protected Areas Forums, and Landscape
Initiatives knowledge exchange events were held, as well as five annual Partners’ Conferences. The
Partners’ Conferences were especially useful for the exchange of experiences and lessons from
different sites and backgrounds, from the diverse perspectives of government agencies, NGOs, and
local communities.

6.      The Project helped to develop a shared information management system known as the
Biodiversity GIS (B-GIS), which is freely available to online users. Twenty-six systematic
biodiversity planning products are published on the Biodiversity-GIS website and there are now
almost 3,000 registered users of the website, far exceeding the proposed target of a 300% increase.
                                                  28
SANBI is maintaining and expanding B-GIS with dedicated resources and staff positions from its
non-project budget. The B-GIS system is being utilized by a wide range of users, from environmental
consultants to planners. The State Electricity Corporation, Eskom, is also looking at how it can use
B-GIS in its planning for expanded power generation and transmission.

7.      To ensure financial sustainability, the Project helped to develop financing strategies for a
suite of Project Executing Agencies and task teams. BCSD-funded business plans developed for
Cape Nature and Eastern Cape Parks Board have been used to justify increased budgets for the
agencies, in line with their expanded roles and responsibilities. Moreover, the Project-funded
business plans for invasive species and fire management have helped to leverage additional resources
from pre-existing national programs such as Working for Water and Working on Fire to target
resources to high-priority biodiversity sites.

Component 2: Conservation Education (GEF: US$1.11 million; Executed by SANBI in
partnership with Rhodes University; Financed by UNDP):

Rating: Satisfactory

8.      Rhodes University developed a considerable body of educational materials, including inputs
to revision of the Eco-Schools Program and a Teachers’ Handbook that was adopted as a workbook
to support a Teacher Network being developed for the countries of the Southern African
Development Community (SADC).

9.      A considerable amount of learning support materials were developed by partner
organizations--specifically, 141 products, exceeding the project target of 135. A total of 109 people
participated in courses on conservation education, exceeding the target of 15 participants per year.
Experiences from workplace learning have been adopted by SANBI into national Human Capital
Development strategies.

10.     Three sub-regional networks for conservation education were established in the western,
southern, and eastern Cape, with plans in place for institutions to sustain them post-BCSD. The
number of organizations involved in the networks grew from 27 to 76; those having explicit
conservation education strategies grew from 4 to 67. A new strategy document, “Towards 2020:
Strategic Directions for Biodiversity Conservation Education in the Fynbos Biome and Beyond?, was
developed and adopted by partner organizations.

11.    A biodiversity conservation hub will be maintained at Rhodes University, integrated with the
university’s teacher and community engagement work and the networking, training, and capacity
development functions of SANBI.


Component 3: Project Management, Coordination, and Monitoring (GEF: US$1.79 million;
Executed by SANBI; Financed by the World Bank):
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
12.     Under the Project, a small but highly effective coordination and facilitation unit, the Cape
Coordination Unit (CCU), was established within SANBI to coordinate activities in the CFR. The
CCU was responsible for project planning, procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and establishing a communications program including website and regular monthly
bulletins. The CCU function and staff will be maintained within SANBI to coordinate follow-up
within the Cape Floristic Region that was the focus of the BCSD Project, as well as expanding to the
Succulent Karoo Biodiversity Hotspot (further north within South Africa).
                                                 29
13.     A high level Cape Coordination Committee (CCC) was established with representation from
all key government agencies to act as a steering committee for implementation of the Cape Action
Plan (with a wider scope than just the BCSD Project). Because of difficulties in achieving full
participation in regular meetings, an Executive Steering Committee (ExCo) drawn from the Project
partner agencies oversaw implementation of the BCSD Project. The ExCo ensured close liaison and
synergies between Project partners and other organizations and enabled mobilization of other
resources from regular government budgets to support and replicate priority actions.
14.     Eight Landscape Initiative Steering Committees and 14 cross-cutting Task Teams were
established, with 4 Landscape Initiatives and 14 Task Teams having received direct support from the
Project. Seven of the 14 cross-cutting Task Teams have expanded to a national scope of work,
thereby disseminating lessons learned and replicating good practices. Other Task Teams will
continue to have a CFR focus, coordinated by partner institutions. Collaboration between Task
Teams improved the effectiveness of partner institutions and the efficient utilization of government
budgets, such as specifically targeting the funds for clearing of non-native plant species to the high-
priority sites for biodiversity conservation.
15.     The project benefited from collaboration and linked co-funding from the Critical Ecosystem
Partnership Fund (CEPF) and the Table Mountain Fund (TMF) to support associated civil society
and private sector conservation projects. The CCU was also given some initial support through the
CEPF and served as the local coordination unit for the CEPF investments within the Cape Floristic
Region Hotspot, thereby ensuring close synergies between CEPF grants and the BCSD Project, such
as support for planning in the Gouritz Initiative biodiversity corridor. Both CEPF and TMF are
supporting follow-up activities, such as (i) consolidation of the Stewardship, Biodiversity and
Business, and Learning Network activities (CEPF) and (ii) capacity-building and Stewardship
positions in conservation-oriented government agencies (TMF).
16.    The Project led to dissemination of about 100 communications products including brochures,
campaigns, exhibitions, media releases, popular articles, and other publications were produced and
disseminated; most of these are available on-line from SANBI and the other executing agencies
(Annex 9). The book Fynbos Fynmense: People Making Biodiversity Work (Ashwell et al. 2006),
which describes in detail the CAPE Program’s goals and approach, was released for the GEF
Assembly in South Africa in 2006. Other major Project-inspired publications include (i) Celebrating
Conservation: Consolidating Partnerships for Tomorrow (SANBI 2010b), which catalogues the
concrete achievements of each BCSD sub-component and (ii) Biodiversity for Development: South
Africa’s Landscape Approach to Conserving Biodiversity and Promoting Ecosystem Resilience
(SANBI 2010a), which details the different tools for mainstreaming biodiversity conservation within
economic development that were piloted under the Project, including (i) policy reforms; (ii) land use
planning; (iii) private lands stewardship; (iv) biodiversity-friendly production systems; and (v)
biodiversity-friendly public works and job creation programs; and (vi) inter-institutional
collaboration and partnerships.


Component 4: Protected Areas (GEF: US$4.12 million; Executed by CN, ECPB, WF, SANParks,
WWF-South Africa; Financed by the World Bank):
Rating: Satisfactory

17.    This component was allocated almost half of the World Bank GEF resources and achieved
some strong results. This component supported site-based interventions in three key mega-reserves
through different project partners: Baviaanskloof through Wilderness Foundation (WF) and Eastern
Cape Parks Board (ECPB); Garden Route through SANParks; and Greater Cederberg Corridor
through Cape Nature (CN). The component also supported protected area activities in the Kogelberg
portion of the CFR. The original project also proposed to establish two freshwater, two estuarine, and
                                                  30
two clusters of marine protected areas; this objective was amended at the Mid-Term Review (MTR)
to focus more narrowly on improved participatory planning to manage two clusters of marine
reserves, adjacent to the Kogelberg and Garden Route.

18.    The total number of hectares under formal conservation agreements in the Kogelberg,
Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Gouritz (funded through CEPF), Garden Route, and South West
Lowlands almost doubled from 1,054,033 ha to 1,953,246 ha, exceeding the target of 1,854,033
hectares.

19.    Within the Project areas, the initial 16,115 ha of endangered and critically endangered
ecosystems under conservation increased to 61,603 hectares (a 282% increase) through stewardship
agreements with private landowners and communities. A new, streamlined model for biodiversity
stewardship was agreed upon and implemented nationally, with a total of 58 contracts signed
between landowners and Cape Nature, establishing 39 private Nature Reserves and 19 Biodiversity
Agreements for biodiversity-friendly land management.

20.      The number of person-days of work associated with conservation more than doubled from an
initial estimate of 85,804 to an actual average of 181,276 per year over the Project period (an
increase of 111%). This was accomplished through the Project-promoted targeting of funds from
regular government programs (such as Working for Water), in collaboration with civil society
initiatives such as the small grants programs supported by CEPF and TMF.

21.     The GEF-initiated Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (PAMETT)
was applied to all existing and new protected areas within the Project area. Many of the existing
protected areas were already reasonably well-managed but overall scores still improved, most
appreciably in the newly-established and expanded protected areas. Eighty percent of the protected
areas scored an average over the project period that was better than the national average (calculated
from the more detailed SAMETT, developed by SANBI for nationwide use). The Project led to the
adoption of some version of the PAMETT by non-project partners such as the City of Cape Town for
its metropolitan protected sites and by DEAT for all protected areas country-wide.

22.   Overall implementation of this component is rated as Satisfactory, with strongly favorable
outcomes in most sub-components.

23.     Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve. Prior to the Project, Baviaanskloof was recognized as an area
of outstanding biodiversity, natural beauty, and cultural heritage but had very little effective
management or funding. Because of extremely limited capacity in the DEAET of the Eastern Cape,
the project was designed with the Wilderness Foundation, a local NGO, as the executing agency for
Baviaanskloof. Wilderness Foundation promoted the concept of the mega-reserve as a relatively
large area of mostly natural landscapes that encompasses strictly protected, publicly managed areas
as well private lands under different kinds of conservation stewardship arrangements, tied together
with a common management plan including land use zoning. Wilderness Foundation also leveraged
additional resources from the CEPF to support small-scale civil society initiatives to benefit local
communities, such as bee-keeping and nature guide training, and to introduce more biodiversity-
friendly practices among citrus farmers in the neighboring Gamtoos Valley. A grant from the
National Lottery was used to build a new World Heritage Visitor Center. In 2007, Wilderness
Foundation successfully handed over Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve management to the newly-
created Eastern Cape Parks Board (ECPB), but continued to provide technical support to ECPB as
needed, as well as continued support for stakeholder participation. ECPB has taken full responsibility
for the management of the Mega-Reserve and newly-established stewardship program; it is already
committed to replicating lessons from the stewardship program in its other projects, including along
the Wild Coast. Wilderness Foundation (WF) continues its close association and support for the area,
                                                 31
through the involvement of the WF CEO as chair of the ECPB; WF was the first landowner to
contract its property into the Mega-Reserve. Baviaanskloof is an excellent example of a government-
NGO partnership, in which a qualified and highly committed NGO, the Wilderness Foundation,
initiated Mega-Reserve management and assisted government agencies that had very limited capacity.

24.     Much of the land within the Baviaanskloof Mega-Reserve itself is marginal for crop
production and many local farmers are reliant on tourism, especially domestic tourism, as well as
livestock to maintain a living. There is strong local support for stewardship from local landowners
and ECPB is already working with 12 farmers on potential stewardship arrangements to set up
conservation agreements that would incorporate valley slopes into the Mega-Reserve as wildlife
corridors. Local NGOs, including WF and Living Lands, have begun experimenting with plantings
of spekboom, a thicket biome species with high carbon sequestration value, to restore the overgrazed
landscape. The government-funded Working for Water Program has provided much of the funding
for this restoration, since Baviaanskloof is an important water catchment for the Nelson Mandela
metropolitan area. Some farmers are hoping to gain future revenues from payments for ecosystem
services, especially carbon sequestration. Although the Coleske community was not resettled during
the Project period because of a lengthy legal and political decision-making process, the Project
helped provide the technical tools—particularly a detailed Resettlement Action Plan—to enable the
resettlement to be appropriately carried out, if and when Government decides to proceed.

25.     Garden Route Initiative (GRI). The Garden Route is a an area of high biodiversity value
stretching from the Tsitsikamma Mountains to the coast and including important water catchment
areas, existing national parks (such as Tsitsikamma National Park), and important estuaries and
marine protected areas. The Garden Route is highly developed for agriculture as well as tourism,
with coastal areas being developed for tourism and high-value housing. The GRI was executed by
SANParks, the national agency with responsibility for all national parks; SANParks has also
implemented another World Bank-GEF project focused on the Greater Addo Elephant National Park.
The main successes from the BCSD Project are (i) expansion of the PA system and consolidation of
the expanded Garden Route National Park, especially through restoration of lands that have been
retired from plantation forestry; (ii) building partnerships with other organizations, including Cape
Nature, NGOs, and private landowners; and (iii) utilization of planning tools, including the fine-scale
planning for Critical Biodiversity Areas, invasive species maps, and integrated fire management
through the Fire Protection Associations. Fine-scale mapping has been taken up by the SANParks
Planning Unit and will be replicated by SANParks around the Greater Addo Elephant National Park
as a useful tool for environmental review of proposed development projects, as well as
implementation of activities associated with new legislation on Buffer Zones. Although the Project
provided support for three stewardship positions and there is strong demand from local landowners
for stewardship agreements, SANParks made a policy decision (beyond the scope of this Project) to
drop the stewardship program as beyond its mandate. Nevertheless, SANParks is working off-reserve
through other initiatives, such as the Fire Protection Associations, and will pay extra attention to off-
park activities as prescribed through the new Buffer Zone Act.

26.     Greater Cederberg Biodiveristy Corridor. The Greater Cederberg Biodiversity Corridor
(1.8 million hectares) extends from the mountains to the sea, creating a mega-reserve under different
forms of land management: Provincial protected areas, private reserves (such as Bushmanskloof),
and stewardship arrangements with private landowners and communities. It is a region of high
biological and cultural diversity, with impressive examples of San (aka Bushman) rock art in the
mountains, such as at the Stadsaal Caves. The highland area has limited agricultural potential
(livestock, fruit orchards, and some olive, citrus, and vineyards) but much of the lowland area is
under severe threat. Large areas of some lowland habitats, especially the biologically distinctinve
Sandveld ecosystem, have been converted for agriculture, especially potato and rooibos production.

                                                   32
Cape Nature (then the WCNCB) was allocated US$1.69 million for protected areas in the Western
Cape, including Cederberg and the Kogelberg Marine Reserve. Of the total Greater Cederberg
Biodiversity Corridor (GCBC) planning domain, a total of 602,143 ha--about one third of the area--is
now under some form of conservation status with an environmental management plan in place. This
includes 256,000 ha of national parks and provincial reserves, including new land acquisition in the
Tankwa Karoo National Park and 62,674 ha of contractual stewardship agreements. Another 282,953
ha is under some form of voluntary conservation agreement, including 100,000 ha through the
Biodiversity and Business properties with environmental management plans (supported through
CEPF); this has been especially important for lowland habitats.

27.     The GCBC has a multi-stakeholder Steering Committee, which includes government agencies
(Cape Nature and Western Cape Department of Agriculture Landcare), private landowners, NGOs,
and local communities. This governance structure has promoted partnerships with NGO and
government programs to catalyze increased support to supplement BCSD Project activities. Thus,
Landcare Area-Wide Planning enabled surveys of the Olifantsberg and Groet Winterhoek core
corridors to identify priority biodiversity properties; the Cederberg Conservancy helped to secure
stewardship sites to consolidate the core corridor. The GCBC also acted as a catalyst for accessing
other funding. The CEPF funded complementary activities to support the overall CAPE Program,
including the Biodiversity and Business initiative (which has prepared best practice guidelines for
potato and rooibos production) and a Small Grants program for local communities. A tourism plan
was developed and has led to community-led tourism initiatives, funded through the small grants
program, such as the Rooibos Heritage Route and donkey cart tourism at Wuppertal. This has
enabled local communities to participate in, and benefit from, livelihoods based on conservation.
Cape Nature has also been successful in leveraging other funds to promote conservation in the
GCBC, including support (i) from WWF-SA and TMF for the Groet Winterhoek riverine corridor
and (ii) from Working for Wetlands for clearing non-native invasive species in the biologically
signficant Verlorenvlei wetland and its catchment areas. The GCBC has also developed two
children’s stories about the corridor (Krokkitor and Krokkitor 2) and associated workbooks in
Afrikaans, which are now used in local schools. Cape Nature is strongly committed to maintaining
and expanding the stewardship program. Several of the stewardship positions were originally funded
through the BCSD Project (or associated CEPF funding) but Cape Nature has made considerable
efforts to retain trained staff, even though some have been moved to other functions because of
budget constraints. Nevertheless there are some questions over further expansion of the stewardship
program because of the considerable operational costs required by Cape Nature to maintain, service,
and audit the stewardship arrangements.

28.     Kogelberg. The Kogelberg lies at the heart of the CFR and is one of the most florally diverse
parts of the region, with about 1,900 plant species recorded, many of them found nowhere else. The
area includes important water catchments under protected area status, as well as important fruit
orchards and vineyards. The Project provided resources to strengthen management of a fourth site,
the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve (KBR), which is managed by the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve
Company (KBRC). A Kogelberg Coordinator and a Stewardship Extension Officer were appointed
through Cape Nature. Negotiations are ongoing to secure seven local authority and eight private
landowner properties under land acquisition and stewardship agreements to expand priority corridors.
Several priority landowners, including the Kluver Wineries and the community-run Thandi Estate
have developed stewardship agreements, which bring important remnant threatened habitats, such as
Renosterveld, under protection. A hiking trail has been established in the Groenland Mountains,
including walking sticks made from non-native tree species and marketed under “Walking with
Aliens?, an ecotourism initiative. Funding was secured from the Development Bank of South Africa
and DEADP for drafting a Spatial Development Framework for the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve.
DEADP and the Overberg District Municipality are providing funding for some of the operational
costs. The Kogelberg marine sub-component was outsourced to WWF in 2008 and recently
                                                33
developed a participatory Management Plan for Betty’s Bay. The Project provided a boat and Cape
Nature has appointed a MPA manager (who also has terrestrial responsibilities) but the MPA is still
under-staffed and under-resourced. Marine and Coastal Management, which has overall
responsibility for MPAs, provides only very limited funds to Cape Nature to manage the MPA. The
WWF Honda Marine Parks Program will continue to provide some support to the Kogelberg MPA
until the end of 2013. Nevertheless, gains made under the BCSD in the KBR are limited and there
are questions of sustainability. The national government does not provide resources for Biosphere
Reserve Management; securing long-term operational funds for the KBR, including staff positions,
thus remains a challenge.

29.     Marine Protected Areas. Project design targeted the establishment of new marine,
freshwater, and estuarine reserves and the piloting of fisheries co-management in the Kogelberg
MPA. Given the limited capacity of MCM and budget cuts at CN, this was probably too ambitious
and the decision to cut back these targets can be considered a good example of adaptive management.
Instead, WWF-South Africa was engaged to undertake a two year participatory planning exercise to
zone the Kogelberg Marine Protected Area (MPA) and test the principles of co-management in the
Kogelberg and Garden Route marine reserves. This has laid a sound foundation for preparing an
integrated management plan with strong stakeholder engagement especially from small-scale
fishermen. In the Kogelberg MPA, local fishermen have agreed to zoning with 20% of the area as
no-take and 80% for multiple-use, with preferential treatment for local fishermen. Effective
implementation will require enhanced political support and additional capacity and resources in
responsible agencies (especially Cape Nature) but it is encouraging that the Eden municipality is
already using the planning process to improve coastal and near-shore management. WWF South
Africa is rolling out the lessons learned on participatory planning and management elsewhere in
South Africa, including the Wild Coast, through its Honda Marine Program. The framework used to
develop the final Integrated Coastal Management Plans is now being used as the minimum
requirement in the development of other proposals for marine protected areas around the South
African coastline.

Component 5: Biodiversity Economy (GEF: US$2.45 million; Executed by SANBI and Cape
Nature; Financed by the World Bank):

Rating: Satisfactory

30.     Fine-scale planning. As a result of the BCSD Project, Critical Biodiversity Area (CBA)
maps with associated land use guidelines were produced for 31 of the 34 local municipalities of the
Cape Floristic Region. These maps are publicly available and are being widely used in planning
decisions and environmental impact studies. A total of 564 officials, planners, environmental
assessment professionals, and students participated in comprehensive full-day training courses to
build their capacity in using these CBA maps and guidelines.

31.     In Western Cape, the provincial planning authority has integrated biodiversity considerations
into provincial land use planning policy. Through the BCSD Project, biodiversity issues are being
integrated into the Spatial Development Frameworks of 15 out of the total 18 CFR local
municipalities. The Project has also promoted the use of resource economics as a way to improve
conservation related to water and land management, such as through a Sandveld study with the
national Department of Agriculture.

32.     The Project assigned resources both for developing the fine-scale maps and for “marketing?
them to ensure their uptake, including assignment of dedicated staff to work within the planning
divisions of the Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning (DEADP). This
process of map development and outreach to ensure public access and uptake can be regarded as best
                                                 34
practice and provides a model that similar projects could follow. Ensuring the creation, updating (for
real-time information), and further dissemination and utilization of the fine-scale maps should be a
priority for follow-on CAPE Program activities, including support to strengthen the capacity of local
municipalities and planners to utilize the maps in development decisions.

33.     Stewardship Planning. A Conservation Action Priorities map was developed as an internal
tool for Cape Nature to guide biodiversity stewardship work throughout the Western Cape. Fifty-
eight contracts have been signed between landowners and Cape Nature, establishing 39 private
Nature Reserves (highest level of protection) and 19 Biodiversity Agreements.

34.    Financial Sustainability and Payments for Ecosystem Services. Business plans were
prepared for Cape Nature and ECPB under Component 4 and have helped to motivate increased
budgets for specific activities.

35.     Policy Reforms. The project led to agreement of a new, streamlined model for biodiversity
stewardship, now being implemented at the national level. Two new incentive mechanisms were
developed for biodiversity stewardship-- a municipal rates rebate and a national tax deduction have
become available to qualifying landowners. These fiscal incentives were ground-breaking for South
Africa; they are now being applied nationally.

Component 6: Watershed Management (GEF: US $l.32 million; Executed by SANBI and Cape
Nature; Financed by the World Bank):

Rating: Satisfactory

37.      This component was designed to address biodiversity measures in watershed management
from catchment to coast, with special emphasis on freshwater and estuarine systems. At the time of
Project preparation, it was expected that five new Catchment Management Agencies would be
established and that Component 6 would support capacity building for these agencies. In reality, only
four Agencies have been established and only one is fully operational. Nonetheless, Component 6
has appreciably improved watershed catchment management from a biodiversity conservation
standpoint, by strengthening and re-orienting existing government programs, in addition to assisting
the still incipient Catchment Management Authorities. This Project component supported planning
and priority-setting activities that served to mainstream biodiversity considerations within (i) water
management and environmental water allocations (known in South Africa as the “Ecological
Reserve?); (ii) invasive species management; and (iii) fire management programs. Management
Plans were also developed for key estuaries. Even though firm data may be lacking, relevant agency
staff have indicated that the improved collaboration and planning carried out under the BCSD Project
have enabled more cost-effective and efficient use of resources, in line with a clearer definition of
roles and responsibilities between agencies.

38.      Estuary Management. A Protocol and 11 Estuary Management Plans were developed
through consultative processes (six with Project funding and the rest through co-funding). Estuary
Management Plans are under preparation for another 10 estuaries. Local stakeholder forums--
including local governments, landowners, and communities--are being established to oversee
implementation; the first committee was established for the Bot River Estuary. Cape Nature has
institutionalized responsibility for estuary management with a new Estuaries, Islands, and Coasts
program with dedicated staff.

39.   Non-Native Invasive Species. Under the Project, a comprehensive and collaborative strategy
for managing non-native plant and animal species in the Cape Floristic Region was developed.

                                                 35
Responsible agencies have established a new cooperative approach with assigned implementation
structures in place and an active Invasive Species Task Team.

40.     Catchment Management. Biodiversity considerations were strengthened in water resources
management procedures, techniques, and protocols in three of the five CFR catchments (Olifants-
Doring, Baviaanskloof, and Breede-Overberg). This served to mainstream biodiversity conservation
within the decision-making processes of recently-established catchment management agencies.

41.     Environmental Water Allocations. The BCSD Project catalyzed a national audit and review
of the methodologies, techniques, and status of Ecological Reserve implementation of water
allocations in South Africa. This is helping to guide national strategies for integrating environmental
water requirements into water resource management.

42.     Information Management. The Project has developed a wide range of products from
publications and reports to posters, leaflets, stickers, videos, DVDs, etc. All have been of high
technical quality and serve as a lasting legacy of the Project. Similarly, the CAPE Program website
www.capeaction.org.za           and         SANBI’s          Biodiversity       Advisor         website
http://biodiversityadvisor.sanbi.org are attractive and informative, reaching out with Project products
such as the fine-scale plans and the Biodiversity GIS. Information has been well-managed and shared
with all partners and other agencies, strengthening the partnership together and creating outreach to
the wider Cape Province community. Information management is considered to be Satisfactory.




                                                  36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      In accordance with GEF requirements, Project preparation included an Incremental Cost
Analysis to assess the incremental GEF costs of achieving global biodiversity benefits. These
incremental costs were calculated to be US$11 million (World Bank 2004). The biodiversity-related
global environmental benefits identified for each component in the Project Appraisal Document have
mostly been fully achieved.

2.      The available data strongly suggest that implementation of the BCSD Project was (i) efficient
in terms of leveraging GEF funds and (ii) cost-effective in terms of achieving the PDO in general and
specific biodiversity conservation targets in particular. With respect to the leveraging of available
GEF funds, this was expected at appraisal to be at a ratio of 4:1—specifically, Government
assembling a total of US$44.13 million in counterpart (SANBI, CN, ECPB, and SANParks) and
other co-funding (from other sources), in addition to the $11 million from GEF. Although not all of
the originally expected sources of co-funding came through, the Project nonetheless succeeded in
leveraging more than the originally planned amount of co-funding: $51.40 million was actually
obtained (versus $44.13 million planned). Much of this co-funding came from regular government
budgets, where programs were re-aligned to target BCSD priority areas, from a thematic as well as
geographical standpoint. In addition to the Project co-funding obtained from national, provincial, and
local governments and public universities, some $12 million came from NGOs and the private sector
(Tortell 2010). From a GEF resource mobilization perspective, the Project was highly efficient with a
relatively modest GEF contribution leveraging substantial co-funding, much of it from regular
government budgets and programs that are expected to continue implementing further the CAPE
Strategy.

3.       With respect to achieving Project objectives, the overall PDO was achieved to a Satisfactory
extent, as noted above. Moreover, most component-specific targets were achieved and many were
exceeded, as detailed in Annex 7. Since these targets were achieved and exceeded with the level of
GEF funding available at appraisal, this indicates that the Project was cost-effective relative to
expectations. In terms of incremental land area conserved, some 71,000 hectares under formal
conservation arrangements (on public and private lands) in the Kogelberg, Cedarberg, Baviaanskloof,
Gouritz, Garden Route, and South West Lowlands were added under the Project, exceeding the target
of 40,000 ha. For the endangered and critically endangered habitat types (the highest terrestrial
biodiversity conservation priority), the incremental area brought under conservation through the
Project was 45,488 ha, exceeding the target of 40,287 ha. Considering that only a portion of the total
Project investment of US$62.4 million (including $11 million from GEF) was directed towards
terrestrial conservation areas, the Project appears to be quite cost-effective in terms of hectares
conserved per dollar. The aquatic biodiversity conservation results were less impressive, though
nonetheless tangible in terms of the improved management of estuaries and Marine Protected Areas.

4.      The Project was a stand-alone GEF project with two GEF grants (US$9 million through
World Bank and $2 million through UNDP), along with counterpart funding from several national
government agencies and co-funding from other organizations including NGOs. The GEF funds
implemented through both the World Bank and UNDP were fully disbursed, mostly as planned for
each component. As Annex 1 shows, the actual GEF funding for each of the six project components
was very close to the amounts estimated at appraisal. The largest variation was that the GEF funds
actually spent on Component 3 (Program Management and Coordination) were 15 percent greater
than the appraisal estimate. This modest increase in project management costs can be attributed to
the higher-than-expected demand for CCU assistance from the executing agencies as well as other
participating governmental and non-governmental entities; this high demand is viewed as a positive
                                                37
indication of strong interest among national and local government agencies, NGOs, and landowners
in carrying out specific Project-promoted activities. Even so, Project management and coordination
costs amounted to only 11 percent of total GEF (World Bank and UNDP) Project costs.




                                               38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
            Names            Title                            Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Christopher Warner           Sr. Technical Specialist                 Task Team Leader
                                                                      Project Design & GEF
Christopher Crepin           Sector Leader
                                                                      Policy
                             Regional Environment and                 Biodiversity & Project
Agi Kiss
                             Safeguards Advisor                       Design quality
Jonathan Nyamukapa           Sr. Financial Management Spec.   AFTFM   Financial Management
Aberra Zerabruk              Sr. Counsel                      LEGAF   Legal
Iraj Talai                   Consultant                       AFTFM   Finance
V’s Krishnakumar             Manager                          AFTPC   Procurement
John Boyle                   Consultant                       AFTWR   Safeguards
Kristine Ivarsdotter         Sr. Social Dev. Specialist               Safeguards
Suzanne Morris               Sr. Finance Officer                      Disbursement
Jean-Christophe Carret       Sr. Env. Economist               AFTEN   Market based approaches
Matthew Stern                                                         Economic Linkages
Caroline Guazzo              Program Assistant                AFTCS   Editing
Erika Odendaal               Program Assistant                AFCS1   Editing
Hisham Abdu Kahin            Senior Counsel                   LEGES   Legal
Claudia Sobrevila            Sr. Environmental Specialist             Review



Supervision/ICR
Paola Agostini               Senior Economist                 AFTEN   Task Team Leader
Mohammed A. Bekhechi         Lead Counsel                     LEGEN   Legal
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour      Lead Social Development Spec.    AFTCS   Social Safeguards
Slaheddine Ben-Halima        Consultant                       MNSHD
Jean-Christophe Carret       Sr. Environmental Econ.          AFTEN
Antonio L. Chamuco           Procurement Specialist           AFTPC   Procurement
Fenwick M. Chitalu           Financial Management Spec.       AFTFM   Financial
Karsten Feuerriegel          E T Consultant                   AFTEN
Juan Gaviria                 Sector Leader                    AFTTR
Jayne Angela Kwengwere       Program Assistant                AFTEN   Administrative Support
George C. Ledec              Lead Ecologist                   AFTEN   ICR Team Leader
Kathleen S. Mackinnon        Consultant                       AFTEN   ICR Preparation
Jonathan Nyamukapa           Sr. Financial Management Spec.   AFTFM   Financial
Sophia Elizabetha Frederi
                             Program Assistant                AFCS1   Admin. Support
Odendaal
Stefano P. Pagiola           Sr. Environmental Econ.          LCSSD
Christopher James Warner     Sr. Technical Specialist         ENVCF   Task Team Leader
Rogier J. E. van den Brink   Lead Economist                   EASPR
Aziz Bouzaher                                                         Task Team Leader




                                                  39
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                            8.20                           11.78
  FY03                                           10.82                           42.82
  FY04                                           13.36                           46.29
                                   Total:        32.38                          100.89
Supervision/ICR

 FY05                                            11.41                           59.76
 FY06                                            16.44                           92.65
 FY07                                            15.41                           84.21
 FY08                                             7.08                           45.82
 FY09                                             8.59                           53.70
 FY10                                             7.51                           61.58
 FY11                                             6.38                           33.26
                                   Total:        72.82                          430.98




                                                40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      A final workshop involving all stakeholders was held in May 2010 to coincide with the final
joint World Bank-UNDP implementation support mission. The workshop included presentations on
the results achieved by each Project activity, along with the next steps for post-Project
implementation. The workshop included representatives from executing agencies, other government
and partner agencies, co-funders such as TMF and Working for Water, NGO partners,
representatives from project task teams, private landowners, local steering committees representing
corridor initiatives, local communities and beneficiaries, and local government and municipalities.
Participants reflected the breadth, scope, and commitment of the CAPE partnership. Reports and
presentations from that workshop are described in the Project-supported publication, Celebrating
Conservation: Consolidating Partnerships for Tomorrow (SANBI 2010b), as well as available on the
CAPE website http://www.capeaction.org.za

2.      During Project implementation, a series of stakeholder workshops were held on a variety of
topics and themes, including capacity building. Annual meetings of all stakeholders were organized
to enable various stakeholders to come together, report progress, and exchange experience and
learning. These workshops were summarized in useful publications which documented activities and
lessons learned. A conservation primer documenting stakeholder experiences from the BCSD and
other GEF-supported activities in South Africa (SANBI 2010a) was also prepared and launched at
the 10th Conference of the Parties (COP-10) of the Convention on Biological Diversity, held in
Nagoya, Japan in October 2010.




                                                42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      As the lead executing agency for the BCSD Project, SANBI provided comments on the
World Bank’s draft ICR through the April 15, 2011 letter shown on the following page. The CAPE
Coordination Unit (CCU) embedded within SANBI has also produced a Self-Assessment on Project
Results Achieved, which serves as the Government’s ICR for the CAPE Biodiversity Conservation
and Sustainable Development Project. This Self-Assessment is presented in the form of a 9-page
table, immediately following the SANBI letter.




                                             43
44
     Self-Assessment by the Cape Coordination Unit on Results Achieved under the CAPE Biodiversity Conservation and
                                            Sustainable Development Project
OBJECTIVES AND                  Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04           March 2010 target        March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                        UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                             indicated in italics)
PDO: To support the             UNDP & WB    All C.A.P.E. signatory       18 C.A.P.E. partners       All C.A.P.E. partners    The CAPE partnership expanded from 18 to23 signatory partner
conservation of the Cape        (1.1)        institutions directly        regularly attend CIC       regularly attend CIC     organisations committed to implementing the vision for 2020.
Floristic Region (CFR) and                   support implementation       meetings                   meetings
adjacent marine                              of the Project
environment by laying a         UNDP & WB    The number of registered     No. of people on           increase by 30% over     The number of stakeholders registered on the CAPE database and
sound foundation for scaling    (3)          civil society stakeholders   C.A.P.E. database in       baseline (2405)          receiving our fortnightly electronic newsletter grew from 1 850 to 3 510
up and replicating successful                and individuals              October 2002: 1850                                  – a 90% increase, far exceeding the targeted 30% increase.
project outcomes.                            participating in the         individuals
                                             Project increases by
Project Development                          30%.
Objective 1 A foundation is     UNDP & WB    A CFR-wide                   Participating CE           strategy implemented     The number of organisations involved in the networks grew from 27 to
established for mainstreaming   (2)          conservation education       organisations / CCEP       by key partners          76and three sub-regional networks for conservation education were
biodiversity in the CFR into                 strategy is successfully     project team at Rhodes                              established in the Western, Southern and Eastern Cape, with plans in
economic activities                          designed and                 University                                          place for institutions to sustain them post-BCSD.
                                             implemented across the
Project Development                          Project area                                                                     The “Towards 2020: Strategic Directions for Biodiversity Conservation
Objective 2 Conservation o f                                                                                                  Education in the Fynbos Biome and Beyond? Document was
the CFR enhanced through                                                                                                      developed and adopted by partner organisations.
piloting and adapting models
for sustainable, effective      RU – NEW     Increased number of          Programme initiated in     Final review of status   The number of organisations with explicit conservation education
management                      (2)          conservation                 July 2004. Baseline        of CE Strategy in        strategies grew from 4 to 67.
                                             organisations with           data gathering started     participating partner
                                             education strategies         in November 2004           organisations.
                                             (revised from: A CFR-        with a series of partner
                                             wide conservation            consultations
                                             education strategy is        involving 27 partner
                                             successfully designed        organisations.
                                             and implemented across
                                             the Project area)
                                WB           The Baviaanskloof,           1054033 ha under           Increase by 400 000ha    The total number of hectares under formal management agreements in
                                (4)          Cederberg and Garden         formal management          over baseline =          the Kogelberg, Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Gouritz, Garden Route and
                                             Route protected areas        agreements, including      1454033 ha               South West Lowlands areas grew from 1 054 033 hectares to 1 764 117
                                             have been consolidated       voluntary with                                      hectares – exceeding the target of 1 454 033 hectares.
                                             and expanded through         management plans,
                                             critical lowland habitats    contractual and
                                             (as alternative to: the      statutory. (see Tab 1)
                                             extent of protected areas
                                             in the CFR increases by
                                             4000km2 = 400 000ha)
                                UNDP & WB    The number of jobs           570 people employed        Increase by 20% over     1107 jobs created at project sites
                                (4)          directly associated with     in protected areas         baseline = 684.
                                             conservation and nature-     falling within the
                                             based tourism in Project     Cederberg, GRI and


                                                                                   45
OBJECTIVES AND                                       Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04           March 2010 target          March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                                             UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                                     WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                                                  indicated in italics)
                                                                  intervention sites           Baviaanskloof
                                                                  increases by 20%             planning domains
                                                                                               (jobs related to project
                                                                                               objectives)
                                                     UNDP & WB    The number of jobs           85804 person days          increase by 25% over       The number of person days of work associated with conservation
                                                     (4)          directly associated with     worked in protected        baseline = 107255          increased from an initial 85 804 per year to an average of 181 276
                                                                  conservation and nature-     areas falling within the   person days                person days per year over the project period – an increase of 111% that
                                                                  based tourism in Project     Cederberg, GRI,                                       far exceeds the targeted increase of 25%.
                                                                  intervention sites           Baviaanskloof and
                                                                  increases by 20%             Kogelberg planning
                                                                                               domains (in work
                                                                                               related to the project
                                                                                               objectives)
                                                     UNDP & WB    Spatial development          No spatial                 Two additional SDFs        Through the BCSD project, we are in the process of strengthening the
                                                     (5)          frameworks in six            development                incorporate                biodiversity component of the Spatial Development Frameworks of 15
                                                                  representative lowland       frameworks in the          conservation priorities.   out of the total 18 CFR local municipalities.
                                                                  local municipalities sites   CFR explicitly             Total = 10
                                                                  incorporate conservation     incorporate
                                                                  priorities.                  biodiversity priorities.
                                                     UNDP & WB    Five-year targets for        Within project focal       250% increase in no.       Within the project areas, the 16 115 hectares of endangered and
                                                     (4, 5)       protected area status for    areas: 16115 ha of         ha of critically           critically endangered biodiversity under conservation was increased to
                                                                  irreplaceable broad          endangered and             endangered and             61 603 hectares – a 282% increase that is greater than the targeted
                                                                  habitat units in lowlands    critically endangered      endangered veg under       increase of 250%.
                                                                  and watersheds are met       biodiversity under         formal conservation
                                                                  as defined by the            conservation               management = 56402
                                                                  C.A.P.E. 2000 strategy.      management.                ha
GBO: to ensure that the                              WB           At project closure, the                                 Agreement on               Pathfinder discussions have resulted in signatory partners committing
conservation of the Cape                             (3)          C.A.P.E. signatory                                      implementation of          to the next phase of C.A.P.E., with an emphasis on local rather than
Floristic Region and adjacent                                     institutions commit to a                                second phase of            international funding. Strategy elucidation and fundraising efforts will
marine environment is                                             second phase of the                                     C.A.P.E. programme         be initiated in early 2010.
secured by 2024.                                                  C.A.P.E. Program due to
                                                                  the successful                                                                     There is no ‘GEF Phase 2’ as was envisaged when the project was
                                                                  completion of the                                                                  designed.
                                                                  project.
Output 1: Capacitated           1.1 Enhance inter-   WB           Institutions are able to     Legal capacity and         Contracts with             A new streamlined model for biodiversity stewardship was agreed upon
institutions implement the      agency                            meet demand to               institutional mandates     landowners concluded.      and implemented nationally, with a total of 58 contracts signed between
project                         cooperation and                   incorporate private land     for inclusion of private                              landowners and CapeNature – establishing 39 nature reserves and 19
                                strategic planning                into protected areas,        land into PA system                                   biodiversity agreements.
                                for conservation                                               undefined.
                                management in
                                the CFR

                                1.1 Enhance inter-   WB           Use of Project supported     Few mechanisms for         All task teams             8 landscape initiative steering committees and 14 cross-cutting task
                                agency                            management systems in        coordinated planning       established and            teams were established, with 4 landscape initiatives and 14 task teams
                                cooperation and                   the various agencies         and implementation         functional and using       receiving direct support from the project.
                                strategic planning                                             across the CFR.            project work plans and
                                for conservation                                                                          financial reporting        7 of the 14 cross-cutting task teams have expanded to a national scope
                                management in                                                                             systems                    of work. Others will continue to have a CFR focus, coordinated by


                                                                                                        46
OBJECTIVES AND                        Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04         March 2010 target         March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                              UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                      WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                                   indicated in italics)
                 the CFR                                                                                                           partner institutions.

                 1.4 Establish a      UNDP         300% increase in             1                        300% increase in          430 updated 2009 BGIS DVDs, 50 pamphlets describing the new
                 comprehensive                     number of conservation                                number of                 SANBI website (Biodiversity Advisor) and 550 documents describing
                 information                       information management                                conservation              the Land-Use Decision Support tool were produced and distributed.
                 management                        products produced (part                               information
                 system                            replaces: 50% increase                                management products
                                                   in number of                                          produced (4)
                                                   conservation information
                                                   management products
                                                   produced and used in
                                                   biodiversity
                                                   management)
                 1.4 Establish a      UNDP         250% increase in             3 conservation           250% increase in          The number of systematic biodiversity planning products published on
                 comprehensive                     number of biodiversity       information products     number of biodiversity    the Biodiversity-GIS website increased from 3 to 26 – a 767% increase,
                 information                       conservation planning        published on the BGIS    conservation planning     which is significantly higher than the targeted 250% increase.
                 management                        products published on        website                  products published on
                 system                            the BGIS website (part                                the BGIS website (15)     The number of registered users of the Biodiversity-GIS website
                                                   replaces: 50% increase                                                          grew from approximately 50 to 2 934 – an increase of 5 768%,
                                                   in number of                                                                    far exceeding the target of a 300% increase.
                                                   conservation information
                                                   management products
                                                   produced and used in
                                                   biodiversity
                                                   management)
                 1.4 Establish a      UNDP         100% increase in the         Baseline not measured    100% increase in the      506 new website registrations from March 2009 - 2010. A total of 2934
                 comprehensive                     number of users of the       but estimated to be 50   number of users           users have registered on the BGIS website since it's inception in April
                 information                       information management       registered users.        accessing the             2008.
                 management                        products (part replaces:                              information
                 system                            50% increase in number                                management products
                                                   of conservation                                       (200). Increase in site
                                                   information management                                visits.
                                                   products produced and
                                                   used in biodiversity
                                                   management)
                 1.2 Build capacity   UNDP         Number of learning           Zero (2007) - only       7 learning programmes     7 learning programmes: 3 capacity building programmes were piloted
                 for effective                     programmes that respond      tracking from project                              or expanded through the BCSD project: the new mentorship course
                 conservation                      to identified C.A.P.E.       inception                                          supported CapeNature and the City of Cape Town to set up their own
                 management in                     capacity building needs                                                         mentoring programmes, SANBI entered into a partnership with
                 the CFR                           (new)                                                                           WESSA to expand its offering of the Enviro Eds course, and the new
                                                                                                                                   stewardship course was taken up by Nelson Mandela Metropolitan
                                                                                                                                   University and is being offered nationally on an ongoing basis.
                 1.2 Build capacity   UNDP         Number of people within      Zero (2007) - only       Total of 150 people       216 people benefitted directly through the investment in the capacity
                 for effective                     participating institutions   tracking from project    directly benefiting       development sub-component through mentors training, the stewardship
                 conservation                      who directly benefit         inception                from capacity building    and extension course and enviro-eds training.
                 management in                     from C.A.P.E. capacity                                activities
                 the CFR                           building activities
                                                   (revised from 50%


                                                                                        47
OBJECTIVES AND                                        Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04          March 2010 target        March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                                              UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                                      WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                                                   indicated in italics)
                                                                   increase in number of
                                                                   people within
                                                                   participating institutions
                                                                   who directly benefit from
                                                                   C.A.P.E. capacity
                                                                   building activities)
                                1.1 Enhance inter-    UNDP         Legal mandates and           Rationalisation of        Rationalisation of       The study, Defining the Agulhas Biodiversity Initiative’s approach to
                                agency                             roles of institutions        functions incomplete      conservation functions   co-operative governance and rationalisation of functions, aimed to
                                cooperation and                    clarified                    (bioregional plans not    agreed and               deriving clear options for rationalizing institutional mandates. After
                                strategic planning                                              mobilised;                implemented              long delays, this study is now being used by DEA as part of a
                                for conservation                                                conservation functions                             revitalized process to look at rationalizing the management of protected
                                management in                                                   not rationalised; world                            areas in South Africa
                                the CFR                                                         heritage function
                                                                                                unallocated)
                                1.3 Develop           UNDP         Financial plans and          Financial                 Financial                Stewardship business case development process completed and
                                financial                          strategies developed for     sustainability of key     sustainability plans     integrated into the Cape Nature business case process.
                                sustainability plan                executing agencies           components of             agreed and being         Cape Nature business case development process completed and
                                                                                                organisational strategy   implemented              submissions made to MTEC and MTEF as well as extensive
                                                                                                uncertain.                                         organisational development interventions undertaken.
                                                                                                                                                   Eastern Cape Parks Board business case development process
                                                                                                                                                   underway.
                                1.1 Enhance inter-    UNDP         Work plans of target         The work plans of         The Catchment            As a result of CMA establishment being delayed, this component was
                                agency                             CMAs incorporate             DWAF regions (proto       Management               dropped.
                                cooperation and                    biodiversity concerns        CMAs) do not include      Strategies and/or ISP
                                strategic planning                                              aquatic biodiversity      documents of all 5       Work towards strengthening biodiversity in the ecological resource in
                                for conservation                                                conservation priorities   CFR WMA includes         reported under component 6.
                                management in                                                   / plans                   aquatic biodiversity
                                the CFR                                                                                   priorities

Output 2: Inhabitants of the    2.1 Raise             WB           Civil society and private    98 projects registered    No. of registered        The number of civil society and private sector conservation projects
CFR contributing to             awareness and                      sector initiatives support   on C.A.P.E. database,     projects on C.A.P.E.     supported by the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund and the Table
biodiversity conservation       understanding of                   conservation of the CFR      including CEPF, TMF,      database increases by    Mountain Fund grew from 98 to 210, significantly exceeding the target
through improved awareness      biodiversity                                                    lottery etc.              5% (136)                 of 136.
raising and environmental       issues and benefits
education/ Increased            in CFR                RU - NEW     Increased number of          Baseline audit data on    No. of participants      A total of 109 people participated in courses on conservation education,
environmental awareness and                                        conservation education       existing professional     registering and          exceeding the target of 15 participants per year. 88 bursaries were
committed action of people in                                      professionals offering       capacity for              completing CE courses    provided by the end of Phase 1.
the CFR contributes to                                             programmes                   conservation education    increases by 15/
biodiversity conservation                                                                                                 annum

                                                      RU - NEW     Learning support             Resource audit            LSM increases by 1 /     A total of 141 learning support materials were developed by partner
                                                                   materials (LSM) in use       2004/2005                 partner / annum          organisations – just over the target of 135 (1 per partner per year based
                                                                   and supporting CE                                                               on the original 27 partners).
                                                                   (revised from Training
                                                                   materials (that                                                                 All resources developed during Phase 1 located on CCU Learning
                                                                   incorporate elements                                                            Network website; There are 450 materials entries on the database of
                                                                   and measures relating to                                                        materials.
                                                                   HIV/ AIDS) produced


                                                                                                         48
OBJECTIVES AND                               Reference:   Outcome Indicators.         Baseline June 04         March 2010 target         March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                                     UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,       unless otherwise
                                             WB (PAD)     the original indicator is   stated
                                                          indicated in italics)
                                                          and disseminated)
                                             UNDP &       Increased community         2006: Results of         Community awareness       Two community outreaches have been held per quarter as well as well
                                             WB:          awareness about the         community survey in      about the GCBC            as interventions on 3 environmental days were completed over the last
                                             SUGGEST      value of the CFR in the     target areas that        increases.                period.
                                             REPLACE?     GCBC planning domain        assesses knowledge
                                                          (replaces: Increased        and activity that
                                                          community awareness         supports C.A.P.E.
                                                          about the value of the      objectives.
                                                          CFR)
                                             UNDP         Annual increase in          Not measured as
                                                          school children in the      school children were
                                                          CFR that attend             not targeted by the
                                                          biodiversity education      project
                                                          centre programmes.
                                                          Target 10%
Output 3: CCU capacitated   3.1 Undertake    WB           Project partners support    2006: Project partners   Project partners          Project partners have indicated satisfaction with the CCU, and have
to perform project          Project and                   the CCU in Phase 2 of       indicate satisfaction    indicate satisfaction     supported the proposal that SANBI continue to house the Coordination
coordination function       program                       the C.A.P.E. program        with CCU                 with CCU services         Unit within its Fynbos Programme.
                            coordination,                                             performance
                            management and   WB           CCU staffed to deliver       CCU staffed with        CCU full staff            SANBI has committed to continue supporting CAPE’s coordination
                            monitoring                    on project management       Coordinator,             complement in place,      function. To this end, both the programme developer and the
                                                          and coordination            Programme                and resources securing    coordinator are now permanent positions.
                                                                                      Developer, Financial     for continued hiring or
                                                                                      Manager,                 core staff beyond the
                                                                                      Communications           project.
                                                                                      Manager and
                                                                                      Administrator. Project
                                                                                      management and
                                                                                      M&E systems in
                                                                                      development.
                                             UNDP         CCU undertakes              CCU staffed with         Full staff complement     All project and financial management, communication, M&E and
                                                          effectives coordination,    Coordinator,             in place and              programme development functions were well supported by the CCU.
                                                          financial management,       Programme                supporting project
                                                          communication,              Developer, Financial     implementation            SANBI has committed to continue supporting CAPE’s coordination
                                                          monitoring and              Manager,                                           function. To this end, both the programme developer and the
                                                          evaluation and              Communications                                     coordinator are now permanent positions.
                                                          programme development       Manager and
                                                          functions                   Administrator. Project
                                                                                      management and
                                                                                      M&E systems in
                                                                                      development.
                                             UNDP         Lessons learned through     C.A.P.E. M&E             Lessons learned           A total of 28 case studies were produced, recording lessons learnt and
                                                          monitoring and              systems not              through monitoring        achievements of the partnership, and adding qualitative detail to the
                                                          evaluation are recorded,    developed, formal        and evaluation are        CAPE Monitoring and Evaluation Framework.
                                                          disseminated and            mechanisms for           recorded, disseminated
                                                          periodically incorporated   sharing and              and periodically          An overarching M&E system for the CAPE Programme has been
                                                          into C.A.P.E. strategy      documenting lessons      incorporated into         developed, and has informed the development of an M&E system in the
                                                          and M&E system              not developed            C.A.P.E. strategy and     Succulent Karoo and Grasslands Programmes. It is also feeding into the


                                                                                              49
OBJECTIVES AND                                       Reference:   Outcome Indicators.         Baseline June 04         March 2010 target           March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                                             UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,       unless otherwise
                                                     WB (PAD)     the original indicator is   stated
                                                                  indicated in italics)
                                                                                                                       M&E system                  process of developing national indicators for biodiversity.
                                                     UNDP         50% increase in number      25 including             90 including                A total of 101 communications products including brochures,
                                                                  of communication            brochures, campaigns,    brochures, campaigns,       campaigns, exhibitions, media releases, popular articles and
                                                                  programme materials         exhibitions, media       exhibitions, media          publications were produced and disseminated, going beyond the target
                                                                  produced and                releases, popular        releases, popular           of 90 products.
                                                                  disseminated                articles and             articles and
                                                                                              publications             publications
Output 4: Protected areas        4.1 Establish and   WB           PA estate in planning       Extent of PA estate in   For UNDP, target was        The total number of hectares under formal management agreements in
established as per project       consolidate key                  domains of Kogelberg,       Kogelberg, Cederberg,    1454033 ha (= + 400         the Kogelberg, Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Gouritz, Garden Route and
document; Additional             protected areas                  Cederberg,                  Baviaanskloof, GI,       000 km2);                   South West Lowlands areas grew from 1 054 033 hectares to 1 764 117
4000kms of viable protected                                       Baviaanskloof, GI, GRI      GRI and SW                                           hectares – exceeding the target of 1 454 033 hectares.
area established and properly                                     and SW Lowlands is          Lowlands planning
managed                                                           consolidated and            domains = 1054033
                                                                  expanded. (Replaces         ha.
                                                                  presence of nine
                                                                  expanded protected area
                                                                  systems)
                                 4.2 Development     UNDP         4000km2 (400 000ha) of      1 054033 ha              1454033 ha (= + 400         The total number of hectares under formal management agreements in
                                 of sustainable                   additional protected                                 000 km2)                    the Kogelberg, Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Gouritz, Garden Route and
                                 management                       area established                                                                 South West Lowlands areas grew from 1 054 033 hectares to 1 764 117
                                 effectiveness                                                                                                     hectares – exceeding the target of 1 454 033 hectares.

                                                     UNDP         METT ratings improve        No METTs completed       METTS competed for          METTS completed for a fifth time for 20 protected areas.
                                                                  continually and by                                   third time for all target
                                                                  project end, 75% of                                  Pas. An assessment of       The ratings of the CFR protected areas in terms of the Management
                                                                  target Pas have effective                            METT ratings in target      Effectiveness Tracking Tool improved slightly from an average of 55.7
                                                                  management systems.                                  PAs concludes that          to an average of 57.3 over the project period; and 80% of the protected
                                                                  (Replaces: Effective                                 75% of target Pas have      areas scored an average over the project period that was over the
                                                                  management systems                                   effective management        national average of 49 obtained from the METT-SA.
                                                                  that comply with                                     systems.
                                                                  international standards
                                                                  operational in 75% of
                                                                  target PAs.)
Output 5: Biodiversity in six    5.1 Undertake       WB / UNDP    Conservation plans          Fine scale plan          Biodiversity plans for      As a result of the BCSD project, critical biodiversity area maps with
priority lowland landscapes      fine-scale                       implemented in six          developed for            6 new areas.                associated land-use guidelines have been produced for 31 of the 34
identified and secured in        conservation                     lowland areas / 6 fine      Overberg and             Associated guidelines       local municipalities of the Cape Floristic Region, including and going
conjunction with civil society   planning                         scale biodiversity          Swartland                for six areas.              far beyond the targeted lowland priority areas.
                                                                  (conservation) plans and    Renosterveld lowlands    Biodiversity plans and
                                                                  associated guidelines                                maps for all 6 areas        A Conservation Action Priorities map was developed as an internal tool
                                                                  produced for priority                                adequately                  for Cape Nature to guide biodiversity stewardship work throughout the
                                                                  lowland areas                                        mainstreamed into 5.2       Western Cape.
                                                                                                                       (Integrating
                                                                                                                       biodiversity into land
                                                                                                                       use planning and
                                                                                                                       decision making) and
                                                                                                                       Stewardship.
                                 5.2 Integrate       UNDP         100% increase in            Zero - this indicator    195 officials (average      564 officials benefitted from training under this sub-component
                                 biodiversity in                  number of officials who     will only measure        of 4 officials per          including


                                                                                                       50
OBJECTIVES AND                                      Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04            March 2010 target          March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                                            UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                                    WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                                                 indicated in italics)
                               land-use decision-                received capacity            direct project results as   municipality (120              DEA&DP Environmental officers trained on biodiversity plans
                               making                            building in conservation     other data has not been     total); 5 officials each        and land-use guidelines, specifically the CBA-maps and the Rural
                                                                 planning                     recorded.                   from Agriculture,               Planning and land-use management guidelines.
                                                                                                                          Mining and DWAF                DEA&DP planners trained on biodiversity plans and land-use
                                                                                                                          (15 total); 20 from             guidelines, specifically the CBA-maps and the Rural Planning and
                                                                                                                          CapeNature and 40               land-use management guidelines.
                                                                                                                          from DEA&DP)                   IAIA members trained on biodiversity plans and land-use
                                                                                                                                                          guidelines, specifically the CBA-maps and the Rural Planning and
                                                                                                                                                          land-use management guidelines.
                                                                                                                                                         Masters students in Urban and Regional Planning at the
                                                                                                                                                          University of Cape Town.
                                                                                                                                                         Planners from local municipalities.
                               5.3 Increase         UNDP         50% increase in number       225 (Baviaanskloof).        815 (Baviaanskloof).       2630 landowner visits reported in the Baviaanskloof as a direct result of
                               landowners                        of landowners who            Baselines for GRI, SW       Targets to be set for      the BCSD project investment.
                               commitment to                     receive input or support     Lowlands and GCBC           GRI, GCBC and SW
                               conservation                      regarding biodiversity       to be determined.           Lowlands
                                                                 conservation from
                                                                 extension teams in
                                                                 priority areas
                                                    WB           Institutions are able to     Legal capacity and          Contracts with             A new streamlined model for biodiversity stewardship was agreed upon
                                                                 meet demand to               institutional mandates      landowners concluded.      and implemented nationally, with a total of 58 contracts signed between
                                                                 incorporate private land     for inclusion of private                               landowners and CapeNature – establishing 39 nature reserves and 19
                                                                 into protected areas,        land into PA system                                    biodiversity agreements.
                                                                                              undefined.
                               5.4 Investigate      UNDP         Economic incentives for      Project will work from      Results documented         Two new incentive mechanisms were created for biodiversity
                               economic                          enhancing conservation       zero base                                              stewardship – a municipal rates rebate that municipalities can promote,
                               incentives for                    stewardship in priority                                                             and a national tax deduction now legislated and available to qualifying
                               enhancing                         lowlands identified and                                                             landowners.
                               conservation                      tested
                               stewardship of
                               priority lowland

Output 6: Biodiversity         6.1 Improve          UNDP         Extent to which the          The determination and       The determination and      Biodiversity considerations were strengthened in water resource
concerns are integrated into   watershed                         implementation of the        implementation of the       implementation of the      management procedures, techniques and protocols of 3 of the 5 CFR
watershed management           management and                    ecological Reserve           Ecological Reserve do       Ecological Reserve         catchments (Olifants-Doring, Baviaanskloof and Breede-Overberg),
                               water resource                    integrates biodiversity      note make specific          make specific              with a view to informing catchment management in the emerging
                               management                        concerns in target areas     provision for aquatic       provision for aquatic      catchment management agencies and integrating environmental water
                                                                 (Replaces: Extent to         ecosystem biodiversity      ecosystem biodiversity     requirements into decision-making processes.
                                                                 which biodiversity           conservation                conservation               The BCSD project catalysed a national audit and review of the
                                                                 concerns are integrated                                                             methodologies, techniques and status of Ecological Reserve
                                                                 into ecological reserve                                                             implementation in South Africa that will guide national strategies for
                                                                 determinations in target                                                            integrating environmental water requirements into water resource
                                                                 areas)                                                                              management.
                               6.1 Improve          WB           Plans developed and          Generic process for         Make                       Biodiversity considerations were strengthened in water resource
                               watershed                         implemented to remove        determining ecological      recommendations for        management procedures, techniques and protocols of 3 of the 5 CFR
                               management and                    threats to biodiversity in   reserve requirements        improvement and            catchments (Olifants-Doring, Baviaanskloof and Breede-Overberg),
                               water resource                    watersheds (alien            in place, but no            implement, and roll        with a view to informing catchment management in the emerging
                               management                        invasives, fire,             comprehensive               out to other priority      catchment management agencies and integrating environmental water

                                                                                                       51
OBJECTIVES AND                    Reference:   Outcome Indicators.          Baseline June 04         March 2010 target          March 2010 actual
OUTCOMES                          UNDP (PD)/   (Where these changed,        unless otherwise
                                  WB (PAD)     the original indicator is    stated
                                               indicated in italics)
                                               ecological reserve,          determination in         areas identified at        requirements into decision-making processes.
                                               estuarine management)        biodiversity priority    project start (n=2)        The BCSD project catalysed a national audit and review of the
                                                                            areas, and not                                      methodologies, techniques and status of Ecological Reserve
                                                                            adequately                                          implementation in South Africa that will guide national strategies for
                                                                            implemented.                                        integrating environmental water requirements into water resource
                                                                                                                                management.
                 6.1 Improve      WB           Plans developed and          No comprehensive fire    Findings of FMDP           The CapeNature fire management policy is based on information
                 watershed                     implemented to remove        management strategy      published and utilized     derived through the Fire Management Data Project. The project
                 management and                threats to biodiversity in   for the CFR              in CapeNature              included an assessment of the impact of fires on fynbos ecosystems,
                 water resource                watersheds (alien                                     Strategic Planning         and proposed changes to CapeNature’s fire management policy and
                 management                    invasives, fire,                                      process.                   guidelines.
                                               ecological reserve,
                                               estuarine management))
                 6.1 Improve      UNDP         Adoption and                 Establish fire history   Findings of FMDP           The CapeNature fire management policy is based on information
                 watershed                     implementation of            regimes in the           published and utilized     derived through the Fire Management Data Project. The project
                 management and                biodiversity conservation    protected areas of the   in CapeNature              included the establishment of fire regimes, an assessment of the impact
                 water resource                measures in fire             Western Cape. Use        Strategic Planning         of fires on fynbos ecosystems, and proposed changes to CapeNature’s
                 management                    management systems in        data to prescribe Fire   process.                   fire management policy and guidelines.
                                               target watersheds            Management policy
                                                                            and guidelines.
                 6.2 Improve      UNDP & WB    Plans developed and          No comprehensive         Institutional              A comprehensive strategy for managing alien plant and animal species
                 management of                 implemented to remove        IAS strategy for the     arrangements in place      in the Cape Floristic Region was developed, and a new cooperative
                 Invasive Alien                threats to biodiversity in   CFR                      and business plan          approach to this work has been achieved, with implementation
                 Species                       watersheds (alien                                     implemented                structures in place
                                               invasives, fire,
                                               ecological reserve,
                                               estuarine management)
                 6.2 Improve      UNDP         A pilot IAS control          No protocol in place     The resultant methods      EIA completed. EIA Report, Environmental Management plan,
                 management of                 project is implemented       for the management       for eradication have       Biodiversity Monitoring plan, Legal opinion produced. Stakeholder
                 Invasive Alien                in priority ecosystems       and eradication of       been implemented           support obtained.
                 Species                       (Revised from: Two pilot     invasive alien fish      successfully in the
                                               IAS control projects         from CFR rivers          four identified priority   Implementation not undertaken and planned as a CapeNature activity in
                                               implemented in priority                               rivers.                    the near future.
                                               ecosystems)
                 6.3 Improve      UNDP         Two estuarine and            Not measured.
                 estuarine                     freshwater protected         Dropped and
                 management                    areas established.           integrated into
                                                                            Catchment
                                                                            Management Project
                 6.3 Improve      UNDP & WB    Protocol developed for       No protocol for          Protocol developed         A protocol for estuary management plans was developed, and with co-
                 estuarine                     CFR estuarine                estuarine management                                funding, 11 estuary management plans developed through consultative
                 management                    management                   for CFR, estuaries                                  processes.
                                                                            managed ad hoc




                                                                                     52
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

1.      The CAPE Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development (BCSD)
Project was co-funded with Global Environmental Facility (GEF) resources provided by
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). UNDP’s comments on this ICR
report are provided in the April 12, 2011 letter shown on the following page. In addition,
for its part in evaluating the results of the BCSD Project, UNDP commissioned a
Terminal Evaluation Report (Tortell 2010). The Executive Summary of this report is
reproduced below verbatim, following the UNDP letter.




                                           53
54
        CAPE BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE
       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: TERMINAL EVALUATION REPORT

                                  Executive Summary

The Project

This is the independent Terminal Evaluation of the GEF/World Bank/UNDP/
Government of South Africa Project “Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Development? under the CAPE Program. The World Bank and UNDP served as
Implementing Agencies for the sake of the GEF and the project was executed by the
South Africa National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) and three sub-executing agencies
(CapeNature, SANParks and the Wilderness Foundation). Project activities were
coordinated by the CAPE Coordination Unit (CCU) established for the purpose by
SANBI and based in Cape Town. The Project website can be found at:
http://www.capeaction.org.za/.

The Project Development Objective was “to support the conservation of the Cape
Floristic Region (CFR) and adjacent marine environment by laying a sound foundation
for scaling up and replicating successful Project outcomes?.

It also had two Immediate Objectives as follows:

--Immediate Objective 1: “A foundation is established for mainstreaming biodiversity
in the CFR into economic activities?
--Immediate Objective 2: “Conservation of the CFR enhanced through piloting and
adapting models for sustainable, effective management?

Work towards the first Immediate Objective comprised three Components, namely,
Institutional Strengthening, Conservation Education, and Programme and Project
Coordination, Management and Monitoring. And a further three Components were
expected to contribute to the second Immediate Objective, viz., Protected Areas,
Biodiversity Economy and Conservation Stewardship, and Watershed Management.

The Project had an initial total budget of US$55.13 million and the GEF provided the
only identifiable cash input of US$11 million. While the original co-funding estimate was
US$44.13 million, this was exceeded by a significant amount.

The Evaluation

Like all GEF Terminal Evaluations, this TE is being carried out:
• To promote accountability and transparency, and to assess and disclose levels of project
accomplishments;
• To synthesize lessons that may help improve the selection, design and implementation
of future GEF activities;




                                            55
• To provide feedback on issues that are recurrent across the portfolio and need attention,
and on improvements regarding previously identified issues; and,
• To contribute to the GEF Evaluation Office databases for aggregation, analysis and
reporting on effectiveness of GEF operations in achieving global environmental benefits
and on quality of monitoring and evaluation across the GEF system.

The approach adopted was participatory which, while safeguarding the independence of
the Evaluator, included self-assessments by the CAPE Coordination Unit. A six-point
rating system was applied to elements of the Project, in particular on progress towards the
Objectives and Outcomes.

Key Findings and Conclusions

Project Formulation
The Project concept was sound with a reasonable timescale and an adequate budget.
However, the project design was complex and the degree of relevance of some of its
components to its objectives was not always clear. Project formulation was undertaken in
a participatory manner, involving a broad range of stakeholder groups using a number of
different information gathering methods.

Project Governance, Coordination and Partnerships
Governance of the Project was complex and multi-layered, but it worked satisfactorily.
The fact that the project was embedded in the wider CAPE Program worked in its favor
and ensured a high level of involvement by many stakeholders especially at the
provincial level, but also at national level. It was a good example of collaboration
between Government organizations and between Government and non-Government
partners. The CCU has played a crucial role in the coordination of the project which has
been carried out effectively and efficiently. The small team has worked well together,
cohesively, with good leadership and excellent team spirit. It is held in high regard by all
those consulted.

Implementation Approach and Institutional Arrangements
Setting the BCSD Project within the wider CAPE Program context, which was being
implemented by an existing organization, was probably instrumental in its success. The
partnerships which had already been forged, the consultative and governance processes
which were already in place, the technical support which was available, all stood the
project in good stead and allowed it to benefit from on-going complementary initiatives.
This approach was efficient and cost-effective. Stakeholders have been meaningfully
involved in project implementation. Information has been well-managed. It has been
shared with partners and beyond and it has served as one mechanism holding the
partnership together.

Project Financial Management
Financial planning and management of the financial resources and reporting as a means
of accountability has been as complex as other aspects of the project. However, they have
been carried out diligently and effectively. The amount of co-funding pledged far



                                            56
exceeded the GEF requirement and the amount actually delivered was even more
impressive.

Risk Management
A number of problems and constraints which could impact on the successful delivery of
the project were identified at the project design stage. Others were raised as part of the
Mid-Term Evaluation. In the event, half of the risks identified either did not eventuate or
they were mitigated successfully and no new risks emerged during project
implementation. Of the risks that eventuated, three were not successfully mitigated.

Monitoring and Adaptive Management
The project M&E Plan comprised an impressive, comprehensive matrix which more than
satisfied GEF requirements. The matrix has served as an effective basis for monitoring
performance, reporting progress and informing management to take any necessary
corrective action. The only weakness of this approach was that the M&E matrix was
based on Indicators gleaned from the LogFrame which, even when amended by
subsequent revisions, were weak and unhelpful. As a result, the project often set about
achieving the Indicators rather than the Outcomes and Objectives they were meant to
measure progress towards. At times the project seemed to set aside the Indicators and
work effectively towards the Outcomes. With a stronger set of Indicators which satisfy
the SMART criteria, this approach to monitoring and adaptive management could be
considered best practice.

Results and Impacts
In spite of the fact that some Indicators in the LogFrame were not completely specific or
relevant to the Objective, indications are that the Development Objective has, in the
main, been achieved. This conclusion is supported by the Close-out reports, PIRs, the
Aide-Mémoires, consultations and field visits. It is also very likely that the results
achieved under Immediate Objective 1 will make a significant contribution to a
foundation for mainstreaming biodiversity in the CFR into economic activities. However,
mainstreaming is a difficult result to ascertain and better Indicators were necessary. A
number of piloting initiatives were carried out successfully under Immediate Objective 2,
but whether these results achieved “enhancement of CFR conservation? is too early to
tell. However, the models are sound and if they are sustained, can be expected to lead to
this ultimate result. The project targeted many foundational and intermediate products
and it achieved most of these successfully. Some progress has also been made towards
true results and impacts but the full impact of the project will only accrue in time, and in
conjunction with other initiatives.

Relevance, Effectiveness, and Sustainability
Project activities have been very relevant to the needs of the CFR and they were carried
out effectively in general. Most products have been internalized, institutionalized and
mainstreamed as core activities of key agencies at both national and provincial levels.
However, some institutionalization is dependent on funds becoming available and
financial sustainability is not yet secure for some activities. On the other hand, there are




                                            57
good prospects for ecological sustainability with the stewardship scheme, management
plans, the widespread use of the METT, etc, in place.

Overall Conclusion
This has been a successful project. Through its plans, strategies, methodologies, and
pilots it has laid a good foundation for biodiversity conservation in the CFR. Its results
are mainly intermediate at this stage and its impacts will accrue through the use of its
products and the application of its services by the responsible institutions. Cooperation
and collaboration are the most distinguishing features of the project - between the GEF
IAs, between the EAs, and between various other stakeholders. It is a model which is
rarely encountered, certainly not to this extent. Good progress has been made towards the
Development Objective and both Immediate Objectives which have been met, in the
main, and the Outputs have been achieved. Two Outcomes and two Sub-Outcomes are
seen as Highly Satisfactory. Serious efforts have gone into ensuring sustainability for the
project products, and it is generally very likely.

Recommendations
The following is more of an exhortation than a recommendation and it is made primarily
to SANBI as the coordinator of the CAPE Program, in search of sustainability for the
products and services of BCSD especially those that have been tested and merit scaling
up and replication.

SANBI should ensure that the next phase of the CAPE Program makes provision for the
following elements:

--Safeguard its own coordination function to maintain collaboration, cooperation and
alignment
--Broaden the range of active stakeholders to include others whose action/inaction has a
bearing on biodiversity conservation, such as agriculture
--Invest the necessary effort and resources to extend the work to Municipalities
--Invest the necessary effort and resources to ensure the meaningful involvement of
grassroots communities
--Continue building capacity within government institutions as well as in the private
sector and at community level
--Provide for Fine-Scale Planning to be updated regularly and managed effectively
--Instigate at national level those activities that were piloted successfully by BCSD
--Recognize that MPAs have different needs from terrestrial PAs, and provide for them
--Explore the applicability of the impressive tools developed by BCSD to other situations
in South Africa, the region and further afield
--Seek institutional champions e.g. for Stewardship, Fine-Scale Planning, financial
incentives and other successful products and services
--Recognize financial and budgetary constraints and seek innovative sustainable
financing
--Lobby for State funding and State involvement where other avenues are not successful
--Apply a special focus on the estuarine, coastal and marine environment




                                            58
--Apply a special focus on the tourism sector as a potential income earner and ally for
biodiversity conservation




                                            59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents and Web Sites

Ashwell, A., T. Sandwith, M. Barnett, A. Parker and F. Wisani. 2006. Fynbos
Fynmense: People Making Biodiversity Work. SANBI Biodiversity Series 4. Pretoria:
South African National Biodiversity Institute.

CES. 2008. Resettlement Action Plan: Coleske-Baviaanskloof Nature Reserve. East
London: Coastal & Environmental Services, 214p.

DEAT. 2005. South Africa Country Study 2005 : Situational Assessment Undertaken to
Inform South Africa’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). Pretoria:
Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism.

DEAT. 2005. South Africa’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. Pretoria:
Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism.

NBI. 2003a. Environmental and Social Management Framework for CAPE. Cape Town:
National Botanical Institute of South Africa, 59p.

NBI. 2003b. Resettlement Policy Framework and Process Framework for CAPE. Cape
Town: National Botanical Institute of South Africa, 72p.

SANBI. 2010a. Biodiversity for Development: South Africa’s Landscape Approach to
Conserving Biodiversity and Promoting Ecosystem Resilience. Pretoria: South African
National Biodiversity Institute, 170p.

SANBI. 2010b. Celebrating Conservation: Consolidating Partnerships for Tomorrow.
Cape Town: South African National Biodiversity Institute, CAPE Coordination Unit,
151p.

Steyn, L. 2008. CAPE Pathfinder 2008-- Sustaining Achievements (Draft, November
2008).

Stolton, S., M. Hockings, N. Dudley, K. MacKinnon, and T. Whitten. 2003. Reporting
Progress in Protected Areas--A Site-Level Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool.
Washington: World Bank/WWF Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use.

Terrapon, H. 2010a. Analyzing and Monitoring Biodiversity Loss Trends in the CFR in
regards to the CAPE Programme Interventions. Cape Town: South African National
Biodiversity Institute, 33p.

Tortell, P. 2010. CAPE Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project
(BCSD): Terminal Evaluation Report. Cape Town: South African National Biodiversity
Institute, 71p.




                                          60
Tunley, K. 2009. State of Management of South Africa’s Marine Protected Areas. WWF
South Africa Report Series 2009/Marine/001.

Van Wilgen, B.W. and Forsyth, G.G. 2008. The Historical Effects and Future
Management of Fire Regimes in the Fynbos Protected Areas of the Western Cape
Province. CSIR Report Number: CSIR/NRE/ECO/ER/2008/0078/C. Stellenbosch

World Bank. 2004. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant from the Global
Environmental Facility Trust Fund in the Amount of US$9.0 Million to the Republic of
South Africa for the CAPE Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development
Project. Washington, The World Bank, 112+p.


The Project also produced a host of supporting documents, data, and reports on all major
Project activities, including fine-scale biodiversity planning, conservation education,
operational manuals for stewardship, fire and invasive species management, estuarine
management plans, and planning frameworks for particular sites. Many of these
documents are available on the CAPE and the SANBI Biodiversity Advisor websites, or
at the other, Project-enhanced websites listed below:

CAPE: http://www.capeaction.org.za/

SANBI: http://biodiversityadvisor.sanbi.org/

Baviaanskloof: http://www.baviaanskloof.net/tourist_route_and_area_map.htm

Cederberg: http://www.cederberg.co.za/

CEPF: http://www.cepf.net

Garden Route: http://www.sa-venues.com/garden_route.htm

Cape Nature: http://www.capenature.co.za/

Eastern Cape Parks Board: http://www.ecparks.co.za/

SANParks: http://www.sanparks.org/

WWF-South Africa: http://www.panda.org.za/




                                           61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 38559
                                                                                                                                            GABON                                     RWANDA                         KENYA
                                                                                                                                                      CONGO                DE M . RE P.           BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INDIAN
                                                                                                                                            Cabinda
                                                                                                                                             (Ang.)
                                                                                                                                                                           O F C O N GO
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA NZA NIA               OCEAN                      SO UT H A FR I C A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COMOROS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND
                                                                                                                                                              A N GO L A
                                                                                                                                                                                    ZA M B IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MALAWI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Fr.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                           ZIMBABWE       MOZAMBIQUE                                       PROJECT AREA (CAPE FLORISTIC REGION)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MADAGASCAR
                                                                                                                                                          N A M IB IA
                                                                                                                                                                             BOTSWANA                                                                      FINE-SCALE BIODIVERSITY PLANNING

                                                                                                                                                                                                          SWAZILAND                                        PRIVATE LANDS STEWARDSHIP SITES
                                                                                                 N O R T H E R N       C A P E              ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                            AFRICA            LESOTHO                                                      MAIN CITIES
                                                                                                                                             OCEAN                                                                           INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                       Cape Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                          Area of map




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Cradock
     A T L A NT I C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Graaf-Renet
         O CE A N
                                                     G R E AT E R C E D E R B E R G                                                                                                              Beaufort West
                                                   BIODIVERSITY CORRIDOR                                                                                                                                                                              Aberdeen




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E A S T E R N               C A P E
               Saldanha


                                                                                                             W E S T E R N   C A P E
    WEST COAST
BIOSPHERE CORRIDOR                                                                                                                     G O U R I T Z I N I T I AT I V E                                                                           B AV I A A N S K L O O F
                                                                                Worcester
                                                                   Paarl                                                                                                                                                                           MEGA-RESERVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Uitenhage

                 Cape Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                G A R D E N R O U T E I N I T I AT I V E
                                                                                                                                                                                          George                                                                                                   Port
                                                                                                      Swellendam                                                                                                                                                                              Elizabeth
                                                                                                                                                                 Mosselbay

                                                                           Kleinmond

                           CAPE FLATS
                                                          KOGELBERG
                             FLORA
                                                          BIOSPHERE
                                                           RESERVE
                                                                                          AGULHAS
                                                                                   BIODIVERSITY INITIATIVE
                                                                                                                                                                               I N D I A N                                     O C E A N


This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAY 2011
