                                                                                                          96389
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Development Project
                                                                                                     April 13, 2012




 Biodiversity Conservation through Private Lands Stewardship and
 Improved Production Systems
 Sustainable management of natural resources and mainstreaming of
 biodiversity in the Cape Floristic Region (CFR) in South Africa


Overview
The project, which was implemented during 2004-2010, enabled the more effective use of
economic incentives to induce changes in land user behavior in favor of conservation
stewardship. Notably, it resulted in successfully expanding the area of terrestrial habitats (from
1,054,033 ha to 1,953,246 ha, exceeding the original target) under conservation management
through expansion of traditional protected areas and establishment of three mega-reserves
(Baviansloof, Garden Route, and Cederberg) with connecting corridors between the mountain
and lowland habitats to the sea. The project also resulted in an increase of endangered and
critically endangered ecosystems under conservation from an initial 16,115 ha to 61,603 ha (a
282 percent increase) through stewardship agreements with private landowners and
communities.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
The Cape Floristic Region (CFR) is the smallest
and richest of the world’s floral kingdoms and
entirely contained within a single country, South
Africa, with more than 9,600 species of plants.
The CFR biodiversity hotspot provides a
multitude of essential ecological services and
livelihood opportunities. This biodiversity hotspot
faces a high degree of threat, especially to
lowland habitats, which are under pressure from
conversion for agriculture and livestock farming,
rapid urban development, inadequate fire               MORE
management practices, overexploitation of               Flickr Photos
terrestrial and marine resources and ecosystem-
damaging incursions by invasive alien species,
all inherently linked to poverty and livelihoods.
Further, the relative emphasis on conservation of the natural
environment at all government levels at that time, including
                                                                      More   Results
dedicated funding, was low. Thus, while the Cape Action for
People and Environment (C.A.P.E) 2000 Strategy had been

                                                                     1.9
prepared there was an urgent need to begin its
implementation. The critical need thus was to build a sense
of ownership for the strategy and thereby lay the foundations
for the long-term sustainability of the CAPE program.
                                                                   Million
Approach                                                           Hectares of land under formal
                                                                   conservation agreements
The project was creatively designed to promote improved
management and sustainable use in three mega-reserves
(Baviansloof, Garden Route, and Cederberg), covering

                                                                   1,107
altitudinal gradients from the mountains to the coast; to pilot
and adopt new models for biodiversity management,
including improved biodiversity conservation off-reserve and,
                                                                   Jobs created at Cape
to lay a foundation to mainstream biodiversity into economic       Biodiversity project sites
activities. All these were done with a view to scaling up and
replicating successful outcomes across the CFR, during and
after project implementation in line with the CAPE 2000
Strategy. Specifically, the project designed interventions to     MORE INFORMATION
deal with social and environmental sustainability,                  South Afirca Biodiversity
environmental management to protect the rich biological             Conservation and Sustainable
heritage of the CFR, and creating much-needed employment            Development Project
and micro-enterprise development opportunities. The project         SANParks Website
successfully refined conservation planning, promoting
biodiversity considerations in spatial planning and water           CAPE
resource management, thus mainstreaming biodiversity into           SANBI
economic development and poverty alleviation strategies,
                                                                    Project partner: Critical
while at the same time leveraging the alignment of normal           Ecosystems Partnership Fund
government budgets with the overall CAPE strategy                   (CEPF)
objectives.
                                                                    Baviaanskloof
Results                                                             Cederberg
Since the beginning of the project in 2004:                         Garden Route 

                                                                    Cape Nature
       The total number of hectares under formal
       conservation agreements in the Kogelberg,                    Country Website
       Cederberg, Baviaanskloof, Gouritz (funded through            Country Brief
       the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF)),
                                                                    Country Partnership Strategy
       Garden Route, and South West Lowlands almost
       doubled from 1,054,033 ha to 1,953,246 ha by 2011,           Data and Statistics
       exceeding the target of 1,454,033 hectares.

       Within the project areas, the initial 16,115 ha of
       endangered and critically endangered ecosystems
       under conservation increased to 61,603 hectares (a
       282 percent increase) by 2011, through stewardship agreements with private
       landowners and communities.

       1,107 jobs were created at project sites. The number of person-days of work associated
       with conservation increased from an initial 85,804 per year to an average of 181,276 per
       year over the project period, an increase of 111 percent.

       A new, streamlined model for biodiversity stewardship was agreed upon and
       implemented nationally, with a total of 58 contracts signed between landowners and
       Cape Nature by 2011, establishing 39 Private Nature Reserves and 19 Biodiversity
       Agreements for biodiversity-friendly land management.

       Biodiversity issues are being integrated into the Spatial Development Frameworks of 15
       out of the total 18 CFR local municipalities. In Western Cape, the provincial planning
       authority has integrated biodiversity considerations into provincial land use planning
       policy. Under the project, Critical Biodiversity Area (CBA) maps with associated land use
       guidelines were produced for 31 of the 34 local municipalities of the Cape Floristic
       Region.

       Biodiversity considerations were strengthened in water resource management
      procedures, techniques and protocols of three of the five CFR catchments (Olifants-
      Doring, Baviaanskloof and Breede-Overberg).

      A comprehensive and collaborative strategy was developed for managing non-native,
      invasive plant and animal species in the Cape Floristic Region.

Beneficiaries
The project benefitted local communities, including disadvantaged groups, by creating a
number of socio-economic opportunities for communities and businesses. Local landowners
and farmers benefitted through gaining opportunities for the private sector in three targeted
mega-reserves: through tourism-related services and accommodation; through tax incentives
and payments for environmental services; and receiving extension services to improve
environmental management as part of Stewardship Agreements. Other benefits for local
populations were conservation education; training and capacity-building opportunities for
targeted communities, schools, and NGOs; and greater involvement of local communities in the
management and governance of terrestrial and marine reserves.
 
Bank Contribution
The project was implemented with two Global Environment Facility (GEF) grants: the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD) provided a US$9.0 million
grant from the Global Environment Facility as well as the expertise and technical
knowledge of several experts ; and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
implemented a US$2.0 million grant from the GEF. The project also successfully leveraged
additional co-funding in the amount of US$51.40 million, from several national government
agencies and from other organizations including nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
The project included six components and was jointly implemented by UNDP (Components 1
and 2) and the World Bank (Components 3-6) with good collaboration.
Component   1:   Institutional Strengthening (US$1.4 million)
Component   2:   Conservation Education (US$1.11 million)
Component   3:   Project Management, Coordination, and Monitoring (US$1.79 million)
Component   4:   Protected Areas (US$4.12 million)
Component   5:   Biodiversity Economy (US$2.45 million)
Component   6:   Watershed Management (US$l.32 million)
 
Partners
Partnership with the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund (CEPF) enhanced synergies in the
project area through consolidation of land stewardship, biodiversity and business, and learning
initiatives. The Table Mountain Fund (TMF) contributed to capacity-building by supporting the
establishment of land stewardship positions in conservation-oriented government agencies, and
played a key role in supporting civil society organizations in diversifying sources of funding.
World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-South Africa was engaged to provide support for the marine sub-
component of the Garden Route Initiative as well as the Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve. This
involvement allowed for the launch of a participatory planning exercise to zone the Kogelberg
marine protected area (MPA), and to test the principles of co-management in the Kogelberg
and Garden Route marine reserves, with the strong engagement of local fishermen.

Toward the Future
A solid foundation of planning, partnerships, and good practice is already being rolled out more
broadly and will influence implementation of the next phase of the C.A.P.E program.  The
national and provincial policy interventions are expected to have long-term positive impacts for
mainstreaming biodiversity conservation within development activities in the CFR and more
widely throughout South Africa. The successful demonstration of the value of tools (fine-scale
planning and working with multiple partners) is likely to be a key area for follow-up. Best
practice guidelines for stewardship developed in Western Cape are now being developed in
other South African provinces (Kwa-Zulu Natal and Eastern Cape). Successful pilot activities
are already influencing other programs, such as participatory management planning for marine
and coastal areas nationally under the privately-funded WWF-Honda Marine Program; tax
incentives for landowners under stewardship agreements being applied nationally; and piloting
of payments for environmental services.
