Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21867
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEITION REPORT
(IDA-22280)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.4 MILLION (US$136.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
February 26, 2001
South Asia Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1989)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs.1.00 = US$ 0.0476
US$ 1.00 = Rs.21.00
At completion (June 30, 2000): US$1.00 = Rs. 52.30
FISCAL YEAR
July I to  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG                           Auditor-General
AJK                          Azad Jammu and Kashmir
CAS                          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                         Canadian International Development Agency
DACs                         Departmental Accounts Committee
DOs                          Development Objectives
ECNEC                        Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FSU                          Federal Support Unit
FY                           Fiscal Year
GoAJK                        Government of AJK
GoBaloch                     Government of Balochistan
GoSindh                      Government of Sindh
lAs                          Implementing Agencies
ICB                          Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
LCB                          Local Competitive Bidding
LGRDD                        Local Government and Rural Development Department
M&E                          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                          Management Information System
MLGRD                        Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MTR                          Mid-Tenn Review
NCB                          National Competitive Bidding
NGOs                         Non-Govenmmental Organizations
O&M                          Operation and Maintenance
PHED                         Public Health Engineering Department
PIRC                         Policy Investment Review Committee
PITs                         Project Implementation Teams
QMR                          Quarterly Management Report
RDD                          Rural Development Department
RWSS                         Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAP                          Social Action Program
SAPP                         Social Action Program Project
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SIPs                         Strategic Investment Plans
SOEs                         Statement of Expenditures
SPP                          Sindh Pilot Project
TACs                         Technical Assistant Consultants
VDA                          Village Development Association
WSC                          Water and Sanitation Committee
WSP-SA                       Water and Sanitation Program for South Asia
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Director:    Vincent Gouame
Task Team Leader:    Raja Rehan Arshad



FOR OFFICIA&L USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    12
6. Sustainability                                                                        14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       21
9. Partner Comments                                                                      23
10. Additional Information                                                               30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project 1D.i PO01 0366                                     Project Name: RURAL WATER
Team Leader. Raja Rehan Arshad                             Tl, Unit. INFSA
ICR Tylpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: February 2 6, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL WATER                                    L/C/TFNumber: IDA-22280
Country/Department. PAKISTAN                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.  03/29/88                                 Effective: 08/15/91           07/02/92
Appraisal:  11/22/89                                  MTR: 09/30/94               11/19/95
Approval:  04/23/91                                 Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF PAKISTAN/PROV. GOVT. BALOCHISTAN AND SINDH'S PHED
& LGRDD; AND AJK LGRDD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            W.A. Wapenhans
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Abdullah Elmaroufi
Sector Manager:       Vincent Gouarne                           Michael H. Wiehen
Team Leader at ICR:   Raja Rehan Arshad                         Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:   Raja Rehan Arshad
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikelb, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfornmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Timne:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. The Project objective is to improve rural productivity and health, particularly of women and
children, and reduce poverty and deprivation in rural AJK, Balochistan and Sindh, by increasing coverage
and service levels of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS). The Project supported an integrated,
community-based RWSS strategy, phasing in a sustainable, financially-viable approach to
community-based management and O&M, which would eliminate or progressively moderate the level of
provincial recurrent budgetary support required.
3.1.2. Assessment of Development Objectives: The Project evolved from the Strategic Investment Plans
(SIPs), a comprehensive sector review conducted by the Govemment of Pakistan in 1988-89 in all the four
provinces, AJK and Northem Areas of Pakistan, with assistance from the World Bank and CIDA. As a
consequence of the review and the emerging recommendations, the government set out to, for the first time
in the country, introduce a community-based RWSS approach to service provision in place of the prevalent
conventional supply driven mechanisms, which had not proven sustainable. The Project thus provided an
opportunity to the government to test a new mechanism for improved and sustainable service provision by
using a need-based bottom up approach. The involvement of beneficiary communities in the provision and
O&M of the infrastructure and services was particularly important to ensure demand-driven investments,
and resulted in empowerment, greater ownership, and sustainability. The objective was well complemented
by Project components, except there was no direct provision to assist expansion of women's income eaming
opportunities.
3.1.3. The Project objective was generally clear, in promoting integrated, community-based RWSS
strategies for service provision, with communities responsible for operation and management. It was
realistic and consistent with the Bank's CAS and govenmment's priorities in terms of reduction of poverty
and in particular, improvement of delivery of social services and targeting women, children and the poor.
At the time of the Project dresign the Bank had no country involvement in the RWSS sector, and the new
approach thus relied on the findings of the SIPs and experience from other parts of the region. Hence the
Project not only introduced a new approach to RWSS service provision in Pakistan, but also laid the basis
for the design, two years later, of the RWSS sub-sector of the multi-donor assisted Social Action Program
Project (SAPP) in which the RWSS component focused on macro-policy reforms supporting community
participation, institutional strengthening and capacity building of service provision institutions. Indeed, the
key policy reforms initiated nationally in the RWSS sector under SAP were based on the experience gained
in the first couple of years of the Project.
3.1.4. The Project was quite demanding for the respective governments and the implementing agencies, as
it introduced a shift from the conventional supply-driven approach to service provision, to a new
demand-driven one. This entailed adoption of consistent policies, albeit different for each of the Project
areas to cater to the uniqueness of them. The multi-Project area (AJK, Sindh, and Balochistan) nature of
the Project also added to the complexity of the Project, especially, considering that except for AJK, the
other two had two implementing agencies each responsible for different aspects of the Project. The
geographic dispersion, and different Project rules and components of the three Project areas were also quite
demanding for the Bank's supervision effort. The Project, however, was very much in line with the change
required in the way service provision was being made in accordance with the findings of the SIPs, and the
development priorities of the government.
3.1.5. The Project's implementation schedule proved ambitious, given its complexity and the extent of
change being introduced. This was the major explanation for the reduction in the Project's size, and
- 2 -



corresponding cancellation of SDR 20 million, agreed during the mid-term review in 1996. A further
cancellation from Balochistan of SDR 4.25 million occurred in 1998.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1. There was no change in the original Project objectives at MTR, except that the size of the Project
was reduced in Balochistan and Sindh.
3.3 Original Components:
Province/   Description of Components                              Appraisal       Revised
State/                                                              Estimat:e Estimate (Nos.)
Agency                                                                (Nos.)
AJK                                                                  Credit: Credit: $28.Om
$28.0rn
LGRDD       * Construction of new, rehabilitated and augmented         160CI    No Change
water supply schemes, including provision of cattle
troughs and community bathing as appropriate
(approx.)
No. of districts                                       5     No Change
Additional population served (approx.)           630,0C'()    No Change
No. of villages (approx.)                            500     No Change
* Construction, integrally with the water supply program,  3,200    No Change
of demonstration latrines (approx.)                  _
Provision of essential materials for latrines to be  9,7I0O   No Change
constructed by households (approx.)                     _
Balochistan                                                          Credit: Credit: $24.7m
$37.88:mr
PHED        * Construction of new water supply and drainage               6     No Change
schemes in rural townships (approx.)
Population Served (approx.)                      140,000     No Change
* Rehabilitation of rural water supply schemes including     1()           35
renovations, upgrading, and extensions (approx.)
Population Served (approx.):                     350,00()
* Equipment, Spares and Vehicles. Special equipment         1 6()     Canceled
for construction of tubewells in rural communities in
the four PHED administrative circles (approx.)
LGRDD       * Construction, integrally with the water supply program,    8()    No Change
bof demonstration latrines (approx.)
*  Provision of essential materials for latrines        11,200    No Change
constructed by householders (approx.)                     __
Sindh                                                                Credit: Credit: $49.6m
$70.9mn
PHED        0 Construction of new mechanized water supply schemes       3(0)           175
in the six PHED Circles in villages generally under
2,500 population (approx.)                           __
* Construction of drainage schemes (approx.)               0I ()(          68
- 3 -



* Rehabilitation of water supply and drainage schemes       480            237
including renovations, upgrading, extensions and
completions (approx.)
* Construction, integrally with the water supply program,  3,000       Canceled
demonstration latrines (approx.)
Provision of essential materials for latrines      17,500       Canceled
constructed by householders (approx.)
*  Rehabilitation and construction in the Arid Zones of     730        Canceled
hand dug wells (approx.)
Rehabilitation and construction of existing and new   110       Canceled
small check dams (approx.)
RDD         *  Construction of water supplies generally using          1,800          2,745
handpumps (approx.)
*  Construction of 135 small on-site sullage drainage      135       Canceled
schemes in the two worst-served Districts, Sukkur
and Larkana (approx.)
*  Construction, integrally with the water supply program,  3,500      Canceled
of demonstration latrines (approx.)
*  Provision of essential materials for latrines        10,000     No Change
constructed by households (approx.)
Institutional This component would comprise: sector institution                   Downsized
Development strengthening to provide cost effective managerial and
technical guidance to rural communities; detailed design
and supervision; hygiene education and promotion
programs; training and community-based program
orientation for politicians, sector agency personnel and
community leaders; a phased program of private sector
support including flexible, pilot women's income generating
activities (comprising training, technical assistance, and
information dissemination within communities), mistri
(small scale contractor) training, and technical guidance in
improved handpump and latrine component manufacturing
and marketing; finance, cost recovery and management
systems irnprovements; construction and rehabilitation of
office accommodation in Sindh and Balochistan;
management information systems for improved RWSS
planning; improvements in water resources data bases, and
RWSS design methodology and scheme selection criteria;
preparation of District Development Plans in selected
districts (Balochistan); and preparation of future
investments and pilot projects.
-4 -



Policy      The provincial and state governments would implement                 No Change
Reform and  complementary policy and resource mobilization measures
Resource    by: (a) introducing a sustainable and viable modality
Mobilization whereby the communities would pay for O&M costs and be
fully responsible for the RWSS services; (b) increasing
local resource mobilization through enhanced land cess (in
Sindh) and water service charges (GOB townships); and
promoting private sector involvement.
3.4 Revised Components:
The revised components are included in the table in section 3.3.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Formal Quality at Entry criteria were not in effect at the time of Project preparation, but
nonetheless, the Project design anticipated and catered to many of the criteria now in place. These are
discussed in other sections of the report.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. The Project DOs are to improve rural productivity and health, particularly of wormien and children,
and reduce poverty and deprivation in rural AJK, Balochistan and Sindh, by increasing coverage and
service levels of RWSS. The Project supported an integrated, community-based RWSS strategy, phasing
in a sustainable, financially viable approach to community-based management and O&M, which will
eliminate or progressively moderate the level of provincial recurrent budgetary support required. Although
the Project was down-sized in Balochistan and Sindh at the mid-term review (MTR), the original broad
objectives have been retained and were achieved satisfactorily in AJK and Sindh, and partially in
Balochistan as described below.
4.1.2. AJK
The achievement of outcomes and resulting objectives is satisfactory. The Project successfully
managed:
* to provide water to over one million people as compared to 630,000 projected during appraisal (an
increase of 75 percent);
* to address deprivation by providing services to the entire village according to the revenue records, thus
including all segments of the community;
*   to further and streamline the community-based approach to RWSS in AJK by building the capacity of
the implementing agency in the areas of social mobilization, technical guidance to the communities,
detailed design and procurement, health and hygiene, etc.; and,
*   although an analytically rigorous study is not available, records available with Local Health
Dispensaries and Centers indicate that there has been improvement in health conditions due to a
reduction in incidence of water-borne diseases.
4.1.3  In the absence of scientific evaluation of the outcome indicators, informal surveys of beneficiaries
indicate that there has been an increase in productivity as a result of a healthier labor force due to reduction
in water-borne diseases and the resulting reduction in labor down-time, and lower expenditure on treatment
and medicines for water-borne diseases. Furthermore, interviews of women in villages show that they have
more free time at their disposal, part of which is available for income-generating activities, and the
-5-



remaining to better meet their household and child-rearing responsibilities. Increased school enrollment and
attendance, especially of girls, is also evident. An element of poverty reduction is therefore assumed.
4.1.4. Sindh
The achievement of outcomes and resulting objectives is satisfactory. The Project managed:
* to provide water and drainage coverage to approximately 1.1I million as compared to the appraisal
estimates of 1.6 miillion. Although the MTR reduced the number of water supply and drainage
schemes by almost half, the Project still managed to provide improved services to about 70 percent of
the projected population;
* to moderate the level of provincial recurrent budget costs by transferring part of the O&M
responsibility of the operational schemes to the comimunities through the uniform policy that was
adopted at the start of the Project, according to which the government would only subsidize O&M for a
period of four years, in termns of electricity costs and major repairs;
* to introduce a community-based approach to RWSS in Sindh. The institutional strengthening
component successfully managed to bring about a change in mind-set of the government institutions,
from a supply driven approach to a more bottom-up participatory one. Furthermnore, new skills were
introduced into the ranks of the PHED and the RDD for social mobilization, which were later used as
precedents by other provinces under SAP;
* to reduce the completion time of schemes by making fuinds available in time for the entire scheme. This
practice has now been made the normn, especially as a result of policy reformns under SAP, and has
addressed the issue of deprived commnunities where schemes were started but not completed due to
paucity of funds or changing priorities;
* although it is difficult to attribute benefits, a study of 73 villages did show improved health as a result
- 6-



of improved provision of water and sanitation facilities; and
*  to save women's time carrying water by making it available within the house or at the doorstep.
4.1.5  The reduction of labor down-time and the savings on treatment and medicines fDr water-bome
diseases, together with the additional time for women to undertake productive activities, particularly at
peak periods of agricultural activity, are assumed to have contributed to reduced poverty.
4.1.6  Unfortunately the health impact study conducted in 73 villages where improved water facilities
were provided has significant methodological weaknesses which limit its usefulness. Although well
documented, the study did not include any control villages (hence not allowing factors such as seasonality
to be discounted), and follow-up interviews were held only three months after the health and hygiene
promotion training, too soon to assess long term impacts (or for the new schemes to break down).
4.1.7. Balochistan
The achievement of outcomes and resulting objectives is unsatisfactory. The Project managed:
*  to complete 18 (of the 70 original) rural water supply schemes, where improved water facilities are
contributing to the development objectives;
*  to complete two (of the six original) rural township schemes, Kuchlak water supply and drainage, and
Mastung drainage. Both are operational and contributing to the development object:ives. Mastung
water supply is also complete but due to some of the existing tube-wells becoming dry, the increase in
water supply has not been achieved. New tube-wells have been installed and are expected to be
operational in early 2001. In these towns, concentrated community mobilization towards the end
strengthened the community-based approach, which will help in cost recovery;
*   to introduce an integrated, community RWSS strategy in Balochistan in a prevalent e nvironment which
favored a supply-driven approach; and
*  to have GoBaloch adopt a uniform policy which made it mandatory for a communily based approach to
be followed for all future investments in the sector, which paved the way for additicrial policy reforms
strengthening participatory approaches under SAP.
4.1.8 However, due to the inability of the PHED to complete the work program and l,GRDD's
component not getting implemented, the overall development objectives of the Project could not be
achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. The Project achieved the restructured work program in AJK and Sindh, whereas it was only able to
do so partly in Balochistan.
4.2.2. AJK
LGRDD: The AJK component managed to achieve completion of 1,621 schemes as against 1,600 in the
SAR, and provided water to over one million population as compared to the 630,000 projected in the SAR.
The AJK component was not down-sized during the MTR. Furthermore, AJK managed to use the whole of
its share of the credit. This is commendable not only from the perspective of using the e ritire credit, but
also achieving a greater coverage within the same resources. The reasons for greater coverage within the
same resources include higher contributions in capital costs by the communities and lowering of overall
scheme costs. The sanitation component did not do quite as well, primarily because it was started in 1997,
the water supply component being given priority from the outset. 1,000 demonstration latrines were
constructed as against 3,200 in the SAR, and construction of 8,250 household latrines wvas facilitated as
against the SAR target of 9,700. The achievement on the household latrine side is goocd, considering that a
- 7 -



subsidy-free household sanitation policy was adopted in 1998, different from the subsidy-driven approach
in the original Project design.
4.2.3. Sindh
PHED: The Project managed to achieve completion of 492 schemes, which is accomplishment of not only
the MTR work program of 480 schemes, but also 12 schemes of the SPP. The Project managed to provide
water and drainage coverage to approximately 1.1 million as compared to the appraisal estimates of 1.6
million. The mission would like to commend PHED in particular, and GoSindh in general, for this
achievement, as the PHED component was late in taking off and actually picked up pace after the MTR.
On the integration of water and sanitation components, PHED's component for a latrine program was
canceled during the MTR due to lack of performance with the result that although health and hygiene
education was imparted by the social organizers, there was no appreciable increase in the household latrine
coverage in the area where PHED schemes were irnplemented.
RDD: The component facilitated installation of 2,564 hand-pumps against the agreed target of 2,745, and
7,691 latrines against a target of 7,192. The achievement on the demonstration latrines is 84 percent. The
progress on the latrines side is commendable as in 1998 due to a policy change, the subsidy-driven
household latrines program was replaced by a subsidy-free one. The progress on the field offices under the
RDD component, however, has been poor with the field offices not being completed by June 30, 2000.
4.2.4. Balochistan
PHED: The Project has not been able to achieve the MTR and the further down-sized work program of
1998. Of the 4 rural township water supply schemes only 2 have been completed. 3 drainage schemes are
complete (in Hub, the drainage scope of work was reduced as the work was completed by the town
committee from its own resources) but not yet taken over by the town committees. Out of the 20 water
supply rehabilitation schemes 18 are complete, and of the 20 office buildings 19 are complete.
LGRDD: The LGRDD component did not get implemented.
4.2.5. Environmental Impact
Overall: The Project had positive environmental impacts through the provision of improved water supply
and drainage schemes, and construction of household toilets. The hygiene education has imparted a
positive environmental impact by reduction of indiscriminate defecation in open areas.
AJK: The water supply schemes are primarily based on spring water sources. The spring water sources
have been protected and water is conveyed to the settlements through pipes. The availability of water near
the houses has reduced the practice of undertaking domestic washing activities in natural streams, and
hence contaminating water which in many cases is used downstream for drinking purposes. Similarly, the
construction of household toilets has introduced the accumulation of excreta at desired locations rather than
spread all over the village. The installation of tubewells and water availability in the houses has also
reduced the extent of personal washing in natural streams, hence protecting the natural water bodies.
Sindh: The construction of drainage schemes along with the wastewater treatment facilities has improved
environmental conditions in the villages. The construction of handpumps, tubewells and protection of open
wells has contributed to the safety of the groundwater. The groundwater exploitation for drinking purpose
is small compared to agricultural use. Surface water schemes use bleaching powder (chlorine gas) for
disinfecting drinking water, but the quantities of bleaching powder used are small and its impact on the
environment is negligible.
Balochistan: The construction of drainage schemes has improved environmental conditions in the
- 8 -



townships. The exploitation of groundwater for drinking is small compared with the water used for
agriculture purposes.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The recalculation of the net present value (NPV) and the economic rate of return (ERR) assessed at
appraisal was severely constrained by the availability of reliable disaggregate data. Notwithstanding, the
NPV and ERR were calculated for the majority of assessed components and for the entire Project. The
overall ERR assessed at appraisal was 14 percent and is higher than the 8 percent (medium case scenario)
assessed at the ICR, which is derived from adopting many of the assumptions made during the appraisal
analysis. If government collected estimates for time savings and for other variables are employed, the total
ICR economic rate of return becomes 21 percent (best case scenario). In the worst case scenario, the ERR
becomes negative. Given these wide variations, the ERR is best analyzed in the context of the different
scenarios and their underlying assumptions.
4.3.2 One would however expect a lower ERR compared to the appraisal estimate, since (a) the Project
had mixed results in terms of achieving the projected outcomes, varying significantly by province; and (b)
the benefits from institutional development and reform, assessed at appraisal for B3alochistan, are not
included in the ICR calculation for lack of quantified data, but their costs are.
4.3.3 The summary calculations of ERR under different scenarios are shown in the table below. More
details on the adopted methodology and comparative data assessed at appraisal and during the ICR, and a
comprehensive sensitivity table for the different scenarios can be found in Annex 3.
Summary Table of ERR Calculations Performed under the Different Scenarios
Appraisal                         ICR
worst medium  best
Total Project                                    14%                    ]n/c     8%     21%
AJK component                                    11%                     3%     13%     31%
Sindh component                                  17%                     -n/c    7%     17%
Balochistan (Rehabilitation) component      13% (including               n/c     n/c     n/c
institutional component)
Balochistan (Township) component                                         n/c     n/c     2%
n/c: not calculable, ERR below 0
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. AJK
LGRDD: Consultancy services were utilized satisfactorily. A technical advisory unit pirovided technical
assistance to the LGRDD till 1998, for: training of staff, masons and plumbers, and conimunity members;
- 9-



health and hygiene education; and detailed design and procurement based on participatory methods.
Although technical assistance was provided for developing an M&E system, it could not be operationalized
till the end of the Project due to various reasons, the main one being that the staff hired for making the
system operational did not have appropriate credentials and could not be removed or replaced due to
litigation problems. The training was provided to most of the staff of the department, and not just the staff
funded from the Project.
4.5.2. The Project also satisfactorily supported the department by providing incremental staff including
engineers, health educators, extension workers, draftsmen, drivers, etc. The decision of the GoAJK after
the MTR to implement the Project through the entire LGRDD rather than only through the Project
Directorate staff, contributed to significant institutional strengthening of the entire department. The result
is that the LGRDD now has the capacity to implement a follow-on project of similar or greater magnitude.
4.5.3. Provision of office accommodation, furnishings and facilities, at the center, markaz and district
levels, strengthened the capacity of the department to respond to the demands of the communities in a
decentralized manner. Similarly, provision of vehicles, and equipment, especially computers, at the various
levels, improved the operational and management efficiency of the department.
4.5.4. Sindh
PHED: Consultancy services were utilized satisfactorily. Advisory consultancy services provided technical
assistance till 1998, which assisted in: establishment of a training coordination unit, a planning, monitoring
and evaluation unit which was extensively used by the PHED, and a hydrogeological cell; strengthening of
the design and construction supervision capability of the department; establishment of Project
Implementation Teams for social mobilization; and, design and supervision of program components. The
PHED was also supported by incremental staff financed from the Project. Specialized office and technical
equipment was also provided to improve the management and operational efficiency of the department.
4.5.5. The noticeable ir1pact was that the Project managed to change the mind-set of the PHED engineers
from a technical orientation to a participatory one. Albeit during the initial years there was a lot of
resistance to the new approach, with training and exposure to participatory practices alongside the social
organizers, attitudes changed. This change was further reinforced by the exposure of the technical staff to
the Sindh Pilot Project within the Project, in which NGOs partnered with the PHED, to mobilize
communities to share in the scheme capital costs based on sharing responsibilities and components of the
infrastructure, and taking on the responsibility for complete O&M. The change in the attitudes and
recognition that the government cannot afford to continue implementing top-down conventional engineering
based systems, has resulted in the government deciding to implement all future investments, irrespective of
the source of funding, with communities sharing in the capital costs.
4.5.6. The Project was implemented through the regular hierarchy of the organization, which resulted in
the entire department being exposed to the new approach. The Project Directorate was a small set up and
not a separate parallel organization within the larger organization, and which now ceases to exist.
4.5.7. RDD: Advisory consultancy services provided technical assistance till 1998, which assisted in:
establishment of a water and sanitation unit; training; monitoring and evaluation; sanitation technology;
hand-pump development and maintenance; and, establishment of PITs for social mobilization and health
and hygiene education. The RDD was also supported by incremental staff financed from the Project.
Specialized office and technical equipment was also provided to improve the management and operational
efficiency of the department. However, the RDD could not sustain some of the initiatives. For example,
the M&E system, and the work on sanitation technology and hand-pump development, could not be
- 10-



sustained.
4.5.8. One of the major impacts was the move of the departmnent from imported and expensive
hand-pumps to indigenously manufactured hand-pumps, based on the work done under ;lhe hand-pump
development and maintenance sub-component. Furthermore, the department moved away from 100 percent
subsidy for hand-pump installation, to making the communities responsible for installation. Another major
impact was the shift in the department's strategy from a subsidy driven household latrine program to a
subsidy free one, with focus shifting to facilitation, awareness building, and health and hygiene education.
4.5.9. Balochistan
PHED: The advisory consultancy services provided technical assistance till 1996, and was prematurely
terminated by the government as it decided that it no longer needed it. The consultants assisted in:
formation of a Planning and Design Circle; establishment of the Chief Engineer (South) office; training of
PHED staff and community relations staff; and monitoring and evaluation. During the initial design
consultancy, detailed designs, cost estimates and procurement documents were prepared for the two rural
township schemes. Subsequently, engineering consultants prepared detailed designs and tender documents
for the remaining four townships. Equipment and vehicles were provided at district level, along with office
accommodation. However, the district level office accommodations were completed in 'lie final year of the
Project, and consequently the full impact was not realized during the Project period. A separate package of
technical assistance was agreed during the MTR for financial management. These consultants prepared a
financial strategy for the rural township water and drainage systems in general, and prepared detailed
financial feasibilities for each township, in particular. They also developed a billing and collection system
for the townships, along with providing training to the respective staff. As only two tovwnship schemes
were completed and made operational by the end of the Project, the billing and collection system is still in
the process of being operationalized.
4.5.10. The major impact of the institutional strengthening component was the change in the mind-set of
the technical staff towards community-based participatory development. This became evident during SAP
when the community relations staff mobilized communities to take over the existing port:folio of schemes,
and the technical staff worked along side the social mobilizers to discuss technical optionls. However, this
only happened in the case of small rural villages. The community mobilization in the rural townships was
non-existent during the initial years, with the result that the initial designs were not done in a consultative
manner. A concentrated effort was made at the tail end of the construction phase, in coll[aboration with
NGOs, to mobilize communities, which resulted in some awareness building.
4.5.11. LGRDD: This component did not get implemented.
4.5.12. Federal
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD!: A Federal Support Unit (FSU) was
established in the MLGRD for policy guidance, inter-governmental coordination, capacity building and
long-term sector development. The FSU was instrumental in developing the uniform policy principles
through consultations and studies. It also initiated action research initiatives, especially the Sindh Pilot
Project. The FSU also convened the Policy Investment Review Committee (PIRC) every quarter to review
progress in the sector and provide an opportunity for cross fertilization of experiences and ideas. The unit
performed well during the period 1992 to 1995, after which it was disbanded due to the ihen government
and top management shifting its focus to implementation of the federally driven public works program and
disassociating itself from the water and sanitation sector, as it is a provincial subject. The important policy
development and coordination role that the federal government was playing received a major setback after
the dissolution of the unit.
- 11 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. The shifts from LCB procedures to NCB procedures with use of sample Bidding Documents in
1998, as well as adopting post-qualification procedures as necessitated by the Bank's Guidelines caused
delays in the overall pace of implementation because of increase in the cycle time. While in the Bank's
judgment they were meant to enhance the economy and efficiency of procurements undertaken, they did not
necessarily produce the expected results due to the environment and prevailing practices in the country.
5.1.2. ICB procedures were used for pipe and equipment procurement, which was not feasible for the
types of equipment and pipes being procured. This resulted in significant delays during the initial years of
the Project. Subsequently, ICB was revised to NCB.
5.1.3. One of the conditions for Project effectiveness was the completion of designs of a given number of
schemes in each Project area. Since by then neither the IA capacity had been built nor any community
mobilization taken place, the designs were undertaken by the design consultants in a conventional
supply-driven mode without community consultation. When scheme implementation in these communities
began, and the designs were discussed with the beneficiaries, they were found to be incompatible with their
needs and/or affordability levels. They all thus had to undergo substantial revisions, if not be entirely
redone at substantial costs, effort and delay.
5.1.4. Legal disputes erupting in land procurement in Balochistan delayed the implementation of most of
the contracts. Furthermore, frequent periods of poor law and order adversely affected the pace of work.
5.1.5. In all three Project areas delay in obtaining electricity connections for the schemes was a perennial
problem. This issue was taken up with the power authorities on a number of occasions but due to a larger
problem involving the federal and provincial governments, it remained an issue until the end.
5.1.6. Inadequate procurement capacity and lengthy admninistrative and clearance procedures contributed
to procurement delays particularly in early stages of the Project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Staff hired by lAs on contractual basis for the Project become a trained resource for the provision
of similar services in the future. The long-term institutional strengthening would depend on the
continuation of the services of the key field staff. Their regularization remains an issue almost across the
board. Even if their value is generally accepted, the regular staff view them as lateral entrants to the
service effecting their seniority adversely, and consequently tend to oppose their regularization.
5.2.2.  There was frequent staff tumover at the senior Project management and above level, particularly in
Balochistan. This resulted in lack of continuity and emphasis on Project implementation.
5.2.3. Adequate and timely release of counterpart funding for civil works remained a problem in
Balochistan until the govemment's contribution for civil works was reduced from 40 percent to 15 percent
effective from January 1, 1999.
5.2.4  Initially priority was given to providing water supply. Neither demonstration latrines, nor the
incentive materials construction subsidies for building latrines for a part of the village, were as attractive.
Part way through the project the sanitation policy changed from providing subsidies to giving information
on the benefits of sound health and hygiene practices. This change was well managed - for instance, in
AJK, through direct inforrnation campaigns such as a National Seminar, and through indirect approaches
such as to schools and students. The result was that the original physical targets (for household latrines) of
the project were almost achieved through householders' efforts alone. Another outcome of the approach
adopted in AJK was that children became the most aware and educated about good hygiene practices, and
became the agents of change within households (which bodes well for longer term  sustainability).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Water and sanitation need to be viewed as a package. The timing of delivery of sanitation
- 12 -



information and training is crucial for its success. It needs to be disseminated while thc water supply
scheme is being implemented for maximum effectiveness. In many communities this was not done in an
integrated manner, i.e., it was either done too early or too late, which resulted in the cornmunities not
willing to focus on a service that depended on the provision of water.
5.3.2. The IA staff responsible for scheme implementation must be exposed to contract and Project
management training, otherwise they remain ignorant of the IA's contractual obligations, as well as unable
to set and follow Project milestones. Moreover, contractors tend to take advantage of their ignorance, and
levy claims for damages that the lAs may unknowingly have caused.
5.3.3. Financial management systems used by the lAs did not allow for sufficient control of funds and
monitoring of progress. Although the Technical Assistance (TA) consultants were to address these
shortcomings they were not dealt with satisfactorily, leading to inadequate financial reporting and audit
comments.
5.3.4. In AJK and Balochistan, the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems, albeit cleveloped by the
TA consultants during the initial stages of the Project, did not become functional. The Sindh PHED,
however, used the M&E and MIS quite extensively. But when its key technical staff left due to lack of
incentives, this system also became under-utilized. The system was well designed and should become an
example for taking to scale such M&E systems across the country. Furthermore, in the design of future
projects, the M&E and MIS should be given priority and should be made a condition for effectiveness, to
ensure that baseline information can be entered into the system as soon as Project implementation is
initiated.
5.3.5. In Sindh and Balochistan two IAs were involved, i.e., the PHED and LGRDD, with one Special
Account having the PHEDs as signatories. The LGRDDs were required to submit their invoices to them
for reimbursement. This made the LGRDDs subservient to the PHEDs which remained an issue
throughout, and adversely affected their performance and outputs.
5.3.6. The Project provided for substantial TA to the IAs. The TA was in the form of'joint venture
between international and national consultants. The TA consultants came on board immnediately after the
Project became effective, whereas at that point the lAs had not mobilized adequately to absorb the TA
provided, nor manage the work of the TA consultants towards the desired outcomes. When, over time, the
desired IA capacity had been built, it was towards the middle of the consultancy periocl.
5.3.7. In Sindh and Balochistan, construction of schemes was done by contractors, and not the
communities, as in AJK. The contractors were accountable to the IAs. In some cases., complaints about
defective or sub-standard work from the communities remained unheard. Consequently, after completion,
many communities were unwilling to take over the schemes, and costly rectification of dlefects had to be
undertaken. The process of scheme implementation needs to ensure that the role of the beneficiaries to
supervise the works in terms of what they want, is recognized. One way of doing this is to encourage
communities or communities' representatives to certify the appropriateness of the work from their
perspective, prior to payment to the contractors.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1. The Project implementation plan was ambitious, considering that a new strategy for service
provision was being introduced which required, except in AJK, a change in the mind-sets of all key
stake-holders, and building of certain new skills within hard-core technical departmencs. Furthermore, as
new policies were being adopted and understood, and communities were being involved in identification,
planning and design for the first time, disbursements in the initial years it would have naturally been slower
than a standard project. However, the implementation plan was designed, more or less, on the lines of any
other civil work focused project. This was one of the reasons why at the time of the MITR, the
disbursement lag was significant. Counterpart funding was also low during the initial years, especially in
Sindh and Balochistan, mainly because of the slow pace of implementation.
5.4.2. In AJK, the cost sharing policy is based upon Government providing all pipes for schemes, and any
- 13 -



water tanks of greater than 5,000 gallon capacity. Communities provide all water tanks of less than 5,000
gallon capacity, trenching and laying of pipes, and all repairs and O&M except in the case of repairs
arising from catastrophic events, for which Government provides funds. The amount of capital cost
contribution by communities varies from scheme to scheme depending upon the number of tanks required,
but is estimated to be within the range 10% to 40%.
5.4.3. In Sindh, in addition to providing all capital costs, Government provides a cash payment broadly
equivalent to electricity and repair costs in the first year. This amount is paid quarterly to village
organizations for the first 4 years, without adjustment for inflation, and the village organization is fully
responsible for making all payments to suppliers. Initially this subsidy is equivalent to about 60% of
operating costs, falling to about 40% at the time it is withdrawn. The Sindh Pilot Project demonstrated that
communities are in fact prepared to contribute towards capital costs, provided they are able to control the
choice of scheme design and its construction.
5.4.4. In Balochistan, the policy in rural townships is for PHED to adopt new tariffs and to substantially
improve collection. Partly due to the delay in completing schemes this approach has not been
operationalized yet, although tariff schedules have been announced. In villages, schemes are being operated
and maintained by communities.
5.4.5. During the MTR revised programs were agreed for Sindh and Balochistan, resulting in a credit
reduction of SDR 15 million and SDR 5 million respectively. Later a further reduction of SDR 4.25
million was agreed for Balochistan.
5.4.6. Although the MTR work program was achieved in Sindh, there was a saving in the component at
the end of the Project as a result of reduction in the cost of schemes due to refinement in technical designs
and specifications.
5.4.7. The change in the .upee-dollar parity in excess of what was anticipated at the MTR, also resulted
in savings in both the Sindh and Balochistan components. AJK, however, managed to utilize the entire
credit by completing the original number of schemes, but targeting larger villages, thus serving a greater
population.
5.4.8.  In Balochistan, due to delays in works as a result of delayed availability of counterpart funding and
periods of poor law and c,,der, the cost of the contracts escalated beyond the original price. These delays
were also one of the main reasons for the MTR work program not being achieved, which resulted in an
unutilized balance remaining at the end of the Project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
6.1. 1. General: The start of the Project in 1992 was followed by the SAPP in 1994. The policy reforms
in the RWSS sub-sector of SAPP were in line with the policies introduced under the Project (see para.
3.1.3). The program approach of SAPP, i.e., its focus on policy reforms and implementation strategies,
mainstreamed the approach initiated under the Project throughout the country. Conversely, the Project also
benefited from the policy and implementation reform approach under SAPP, as the latter brought about a
consistency in the policy environment as it ensured that all investments in the sector, regardless of the
source of funding, are community-based and follow more or less the same rules. The evolution of the
policy reforms under SAPP also facilitated the change in the sanitation program under the Project and other
Project investments in the sector, both government funded and donor assisted.
6.1.2. AJK: The sustainability rating for the AJK component is highly likely. Community-based
approaches have been a norm in AJK for the last many decades. The Project assisted in further
streamlining and consolidating the participatory approaches by introducing and taking to scale systematic
community mobilization techniques and strategies. There is a high level of government commitment to
providing water and sanitation to the communities on a priority basis. Communities are not only involved
- 14 -



in the identification, planning, and design, but also share in the capital costs of the infrastructure (up to 20
percent of the total infrastructure cost) and are responsible for implementation. Furthermore, they are
responsible for complete O&M, as has been the historical practice. This enhances owner-ship, especially
sharing in the capital costs, which makes sustainability more certain. The policy envirorment has also been
adapted to the prevalent trends of community-based approaches. The LGRDD has histo1rically consulted
with the communities while providing services. This practice has been mainstreamed as a result of the
Project. The capacity building of the entire department under the Project has ensured that the improved
management and operational efficiency will remain after the Project for all new investments, regardless of
the source of funding. The enhanced capacity of the implementing agency has created a conducive
environment for a follow-on project with enhanced scope of work to include other community infrastructure
services. On the financial side, there is no operating cost liability on the government as the schemes are
being managed by the beneficiaries. As most of the schemes are based on simple low-cost technologies, the
O&M liability is minimal, and within the affordability range of the communities. Data indicates that out
of 549 schemes completed more than three years ago, 95 percent are still operational.
'_..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ....
6.1.3. Sindh: The sustainability rating for the Sindh component is likely. There has been a change in
the mind-set of the PHED towards participatory approaches. Furthermore, the Sindh Pilot Project has
demonstrated that communities are willing to share in the capital costs (up to 15 percent of the total
infrastructure cost) provided there is demand for improved water service. Government's commitment to the
community-based approach is demonstrated in the adoption of the uniform policy at the outset of the
Project and more recently, in deciding to base future investments on the principles of caEpital cost sharing.
This has been complemented by the policy reforms under SAPP, according to which the government is
attaching top priority to completing under-construction schemes and rehabilitation of existing schemes
vis-a-vis starting new ones, and transferring them to the beneficiaries. The decentralized management of
the PHED and RDD helps ensure improved operational efficiency, especially in social mnobilization and
schemes based on appropriate technology. The services of the social organizers hired under the Project,
with many years of experience under their belt, were initially discontinued by the govemnment after the
Project. However, they are now in the process of being reinstated. Although the comnnunities have an
improved service, the presence of a partial subsidy from the government for a period of four years, could
undermine the sustainability of the schemes once the subsidy is withdrawn. The possibility of this
happening has been mitigated by the design of the subsidy, by keeping the amount constarnt over the four
year period. By the time the subsidy is withdrawn, in real terms it would have reduced to less than 40
percent, thus not being a major loss. Already it has been observed that some village organizations are not
using the subsidy funds and instead are operating and maintaining the systems from their own resources.
The subsidy funds are kept in the bank account as contingency funds for major repairs, like motor and/or
pump repairs, etc. Data shows that 95 percent of 93 schemes (out of the total number of 492 schemes
constructed under the project) constructed more than three years ago are still oper-ational. This is a
- 15-



further indication that although the subsidy in real terms has gone down during the three years, the
communities are continuing to operate the schemes.
6.1.4. Balochistan: The sustainability rating for the Balochistan component is unlikely on the rural
township component. Although there has been a change in the mind-set of the PHED towards
participatory approaches, as there was no community mobilization done in the rural townships at the time
of planning and design, and subsequently, during implementation, sustainability remains uncertain. A
concentrated effort was made at building the awareness of the communities and mobilizing them at the tail
end of the construction phase, but it is not adequate to ensure that the water and drainage systems would be
operated and maintained in a sustainable and self-financing manner. Furthermore, the billing and collection
system has not been fully operationalized, and whether the users are going to pay the monthly tariff to the
PHED and/or town committee, is uncertain, especially for drainage. The sustainability rating of the rural
village water schemes is likely as they were rehabilitated based on demand, and communities were
involved in the planning and implementation. The institutional strengthening aspect of the Project is
likely to be sustainable as the PHED has regularized key staff, and is mobilizing communities under SAPP
and transferring existing schemes to the beneficiaries. Furthermore, in accordance with the uniform policy,
all new investments in the sector are being made with the involvement of communities and transferring the
schemes to them on completion for O&M.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. AJK: All systems implemented under the Project are being operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries, and there is no liability on the government for regular operations. The implementation of the
systems is largely done by the communities. This coupled with training imparted under the Project
contribute to skill development necessary to carry out minor repairs during the operation of the systems
The communities collect O&M funds from the households on a regular basis to pay for minor repairs and
for major repairs they collect on an 'as and when required' basis. The LGRDD assists in the case of a
natural disaster, for example, part of the pipe network getting damaged due to a land-slide, etc. The
department has funding for such emergencies from the development budget.
6.2.2. Sindh: All systems implemented under the Project have been transferred to the communities and are
being operated and maintained by the communities. The government transfers its share of funds directly to
the village organizations' bank accounts every quarter through an automated transfer from the National
Bank, designed under the Project. Communities generally are collecting O&M funds on a monthly basis to
pay the operators' salary where required and for routine maintenance. As explained above, some
communities are not using the government's share for O&M and instead saving it for major repairs. The
policy reforms introduced under SAPP, especially that no scheme transferred to the community would be
taken back by the govemment for O&M, is ensuring that the communities understand that they have to
operate and maintain the systems and there would be no assistance forthcoming from the government if the
communities are unable to do so.
6.2.3. Adequate PHED staff exists in the field to provide technical assistance as and when required by the
communities. The strengthening of the department's capacity on the social mobilization side is continuing
as the PITs are mobilizing communities to take over existing schemes in line with the SAPP agreements.
Furthermore, the same PITs will be mobilizing communities when new schemes are initiated by the
government.
6.2.4. Balochistan: The two completed rural township water supply schemes are initially being operated
and maintained by the PHED. The billing and collection system is in the process of being operationalized.
The new tariff rates for the next 10 years, based on the financial feasibilities, have already been notified by
- 16-



the government. The PHED is initially going to operate and maintain the water supply system and transfer
it the town committee in a phased manner. The drainage systems are going to be managed by the town
committees. Adequate arrangements are not in place to ensure that the town committees are willing to or
would be able to manage the drainage systems. The government is looking into this aspect and considering
combining the management responsibility of water supply and drainage so that one organization is
responsible for both.
6.2.5. The rural water supply schemes are being operated and maintained by the comraunities. According
to the uniform policy, existing systems are also being transferred to the communities in a phased manner.
Similarly, new rural schemes being undertaken by the government from its own resources will also be
transferred to the communities for O&M on completion. Consequently, there is no financial liability on the
government during the regular operation of the systems.
6.2.6. The government has transferred the community development staff to the non-development budget.
Consequently, the government is equipped to mobilize communities under new investments.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
7.1.1. The Project design evolved from the SIPs, a comprehensive sector review conducted by the
Govenmuent of Pakistan in 1988-89 in all the four provinces, AJK and Northern Areas of Pakistan, with
assistance from the World Bank and CIDA. It was realistic and consistent with the Bank's CAS and
government's priorities in terms of reduction of poverty and, in particular, improvement of delivery of
social services and targeting women, children and the poor. Assistance to the government was provided
during project preparation through a reasonably good skill mix of Bank staff and consultants. Lessons
leamt from similar projects in the region and elsewhere were incorporated in the designs in addition to the
recommendations emerging from the SIPs. The project design was based on cutting-edge knowledge that
existed at the time of project preparation, and the project, especially the AJK component, was considered as
a leading initiative in the sector for many years. However, designing the project for multi-areas with
multi-agencies in two out of the three areas was in hindsight not a good concept, as it increased the
complexity of the project in terms of coordination, operational aspects and supervision.
7.1.2. Risks were appropriately identified and the mitigation measures suggested were appropriate.
However, considering that one of the risks identified was delayed start-up because of introduction of a new
approach, the targets were ambitious. The design of cross-subsidy in Sindh through the levy and collection
of additional cess, was not pragmatic and implementable. Furthermore, Sindh is the only province where
partial subsidy is being given for O&M, and is raising a question regarding sustainability of investments.
7.1.3. The implementation plan was based on the pattern of a civil works focused project, without
allowing for the social mobilization aspects. Similarly, the fact that designs and bidding documents for the
initial set of systems were completed prior to project effectiveness, as required by regionial guidelines,
negated the spirit of the community-based approach as the beneficiaries were not involved in the planning
and design. The use of ICB procedures for procurement of materials used in community-based projects
was not realistic, which was soon recognized, and instead NCB and community contracting procedures
were introduced. The provision of one Special Account each in Sindh and Balochistan. for two
implementing agencies in each province created coordination problems which resulted in the LGRDDs
being dependent on the PHEDs. The project's financial management system did not receive the in depth
attention that more recent projects have received since the recruitment of FMSs. However at appraisal, in
- 17 -



accordance with OD 10.60, attention was drawn to the weak financial capacity of the LAs, and remedial
measures built into the design of the project. These included a Financial Management Study, review and
strengthening of accounting and cost recovery practices, Project accounting training (project-wide) and
Technical Assistance. Financial management improvement was to be closely coordinated with the
Province/State Accountant General and the Director General of Audit.
7.2 Supervision
7.2.1. Supervision was done through regular supervision missions, assisted by field visits by appropriate
Bank staff and staff of the Water and Sanitation Program for South Asia (WSP-SA) as and when required,
and regular formal and informal contact with the implementing agencies. Field visits between regular
supervision missions, especially by the WSP-SA staff who are Islamabad-based and were involved in
supervision of the RWSS component of SAP, were used to follow-up on actions agreed during the
missions. However, as the project was being implemented in two provinces and one state, the supervision
effort was spread thinly. The missions still managed to identify implementation problems and discuss their
resolutions with the lAs and the governments. This is evident in the fact that the task team agreed to
change in procurement procedures when it was recognized that the ICB procedures are not appropriate for
the type of materials being procured. Furthermore, the shift in the sanitation component from a
subsidy-driven approach to a subsidy-free approach in line with the best practices, was as a result of the
constant exchange between the task team, WSP-SA and the implementing agencies. The skill mix of the
supervision missions was adequate, comprising in most cases an institutional specialist, a water and
sanitary engineer, and a social development specialist. In the initial and final years, procurement specialists
were also part of the supervision missions. A financial analyst was included off and on in the missions. A
Financial Management Specialist was involved only at the tail end of the Project (Sindh only). The MTR
was held in December 1995, based on which the Project was down-sized by SDR 20 million (SDR 15
million from Sindh and SDR 5 million from Balochistan). A detailed revised annual work program was
agreed with the implementing agencies, which was monitored rigorously by the Bank team with support
from WSP-SA, as future cancellations were tied to the work programs not being achieved. This resulted in
the AJK and the Sindh c-.nponents being completed, whereas Balochistan was further down-sized by SDR
4.25 million in 1998. The SAPP II also provided an opportunity to work with the implementing agencies
and governments to follow-up on most of the actions from a macro level. SAPP I and II also provided the
much needed coordination among all the donors, which helped bringing about consistency in policies and
approaches, thus complementing the supervision effort. In the last two years, additional visits were made
by WSP-SA to the project areas and workshops were held in which the technical and the social
development staff were invited so that they could identify the problems in the field, discuss the issues, and
brainstonr on the solutions. World Bank managers got involved at critical junctures, specially when
problems surfaced regarding payments to the technical assistant consultants in Balochistan. The Country
and Provincial Portfolio Reviews also contributed in raising the issues at the highest levels, and getting
agreements on the solutions.
7.2.2. With task management in Headquarters initially, there was less interaction with implementing
agencies on procurement. This was addressed with the transfer of responsibility for procurement review to
the Islamabad Field Office where there was adequate knowledge of the sector and of field realities. The
high rate of tumover of Task Team Leaders created a break in continuity and institutional memory. This
was mitigated to quite an extent by the support provided by the WSP-SA staff based in Islamabad, who not
only assisted on operational aspects, but also provided input on latest evolving thinking and best practices
in the sector. In 1998 through close interaction with the implementing agencies, the Bank's procurement
staff provided further guidance to the implementing agencies on IDA's procurement procedures,
highlighting key issues with recommendations for corrective actions. IA staff were also provided basic
procurement training through workshops conducted by the Islamabad Field Office. Two rounds of ex-post
- 18-



and end-use audits were also conducted through specialized audit firms and issues were followed-up with
the concerned agencies.
7.2.3. Financial Management Specialists have only recently been engaged by the Bank. The regular
involvement of a financial management specialist (or a suitably qualified consultant unider their oversight)
would have improved the Bank's supervision, monitoring and implementation of the inmancial management
aspects of the Project. The TA input related to financial management varied in different Project areas and
was not properly monitored either by the Bank or the LAs. If the expertise had been available earlier, the
World Bank could have undertaken further measures such as: (a) insisting that the Government's own
process of resolution of the audit observations was carried out through the system of I)epartmental
Accounts Conunittee meetings within a reasonable time; (b) enforcing more rigorous]y the remedies under
OP/BP 10.02 (prior to its introduction, under OD 10.60), regarding the preparation of acceptable action
plans to deal with audit observations and the underlying internal control weaknesses; (c) insisting on the
timely provision of financial management training of staff; and, (d) assessing the need for and ensuring
provision of more accurate and timely accounting information.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1. The overall Bank performance is rated just satisfactory, as the effort put in by the Bank and
WSP-SA staff during preparation and supervision, considering that this was a complex multi-area and
multi-agency Project, yielded completion of the AJK component and the revised Sindh component and
partial completion of the Balochistan component. Furthermore, the right-sizing done during the MTR was
realistic as both Sindh and AJK increased their rate of implementation after the MTPR but could not have
achieved more by the closing date.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1. The federal government initiated the preparation process by launching the SIPS in the late 1980s,
and remained committed to implementing the recommendations. The government continued to provide
timely input and support to Project preparation by facilitating necessary clearances and approvals. The
federal and provincial/state governments developed uniform policies during the Project preparation phase
and adopted them after the Project was launched. The government also supported the establishment of
Project units, especially the FSU in the MLGRD.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. Based on the Project outcomes, its commitment to decentralized participatory development, and
support to achievement of Project objectives, the performance is rated as satisfactory except in Balochistan.
The governments' implementation efforts resulted in adoption of uniformn and consistent sector policies and
ensured that all investments in the sector, regardless of funding source, are made in accordance with the
policies. This brought about an envirorment which was conducive for introduction of a new way of doing
business, i.e., moving away from a supply-driven approach to a participatory one. The government
commitment to participatory development was mainstreamed with the launch of the SAPP in FY93. The
macro policy reforms adopted under SAPP provided umbrella support for Project implementation. Rapid
turnover of senior staff in Balochistan and during the pre-MTR stage in Sindh also, resulted in lack of
continuity as new appointees struggled to understand their jobs and the participatory approach. Delayed
releases of counterpart funding in Balochistan resulted in the contracts getting delayed which resulted in
higher cost of the completed schemes and others not getting completed. Project implementation turned
around after the MTR in AJK and Sindh with generally adequate and timely support to implementation
from the government.
- 19-



7.5.2. There were shortcomings in achieving the financial covenants in terms of timeliness and
completeness of audit reports and follow-up action on qualified audit reports pointing out serious internal
control issues. Other covenants were generally met, for example uniform policies were adopted by the
provinces/state; funding was provided from the development budgets for financing a proportion of the
capital costs; ensuring O&M of the completed schemes; and providing funds raised through cesses and
other levies in Sindh.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. AJK: The performance of LGRDD was highly satisfactory as it managed to implement the original
work program and achieve the DOs. The LGRDD after the MTR decided to implement the Project using
the Departments core staff in addition to the Project staff, which not only helped in completion of the work
program but also enabled the whole department to benefit from the institutional strengthening under the
Project. Staffing decisions were taken in a timely manner and the placement of staff was done fairly
promptly. The LGRDD utilized the services of the technical assistant consultants in an optimum manner,
and their services were truncated a year before the envisaged period. Beneficiary participation was further
enhanced and streamlined during the Project as the social mobilization strategies were mainstreamed. The.
department furthered community participation in procurement by decentralizing to the district levels and
getting Chairpersons involved in the tendering and bidding process. However, the LGRDD could not
operationalize the MIS developed by consultants, mainly due to staffing reasons. Furthermore, the
department gave priority to water supply vis-a-vis sanitation and consequently the latter component was
rushed in the final years of the Project.
7.6.2. Sindh: The performance of Sindh PHED and RDD was satisfactory, as they managed to implement
the down-sized post-MTR work program and achieve the DOs. The performance of the departments
improved significantly after the MTR, primarily because of improved management by and support from the
senior levels, and improved recognition and understanding of the community based approach. During the
last three years, the PHED decentralized the management functions by creating three additional Chief
Engineers, with increased authority to take decisions regarding implementation aspects. The social
mobilization performance of the Project Implementation Teams (PITs) was also good, with the result that
communities became aware of the new approach and started participating in the planning and design of
schemes. The PHED to a greater and the RDD to a lesser extent utilized the services of the technical
assistant consultants. The PHED continued to use the MIS developed by the consultants. However, with
the departure of qualified staff due to lack of incentives, the system could not be used to the optimum level.
The PHED also worked as a partner with NGOs on a pilot Project covering 12 schemes (the Sindh Pilot
Project) and were open to appropriate technology based schemes with community contribution in capital
costs. The PHED was handicapped in terms of obtaining electricity connections for the completed schemes
as this was an issue beyond its control. However, the PHED provided diesel pump-sets as part of the
design, which are being used by the communities. The government managed in 1997 to develop an
automated mechanism for transferring its share of O&M funds directly to the bank accounts of village
organizations. This was a lengthy and difficult task as it involved several discussions at the highest levels
among the finance and other relevant departments.
7.6.3. Balochistan: The performance of the Balochistan PHED was unsatisfactory. Although the
department recognized and subscribed to the community-based approach, poor management, delays in
hiring of social mobilizers, and poor contract management resulted in the MTR work program not being
completed. The technical assistant services were also not utilized to the optimum, as there was a lack of
coordination in terms of availability of consultants and counterpart staff. Community participation was not
undertaken in the rural township schemes at the time of planning and design, and the social mobilization
staff focused on the rural village schemes and transferring existing schemes under SAPP. The MIS
- 20 -



developed by the consultants was not operationalized as counterpart staff was not available at the time of
development of the system. The procurement actions were also subject to delays for various reasons. The
performance of LGRDD was highly unsatisfactory as its component did not get implemented.
7.6.4. Overall performance of each of the implementing agencies has been satisfactory on procurement,
except for Balochistan where delays were experienced. Following training in procurement and guidance
from the Bank after 1997-98, the respective implementing agencies at the later stages in the Project were
found receptive to the need for making improvements in the procurement procedures. T he use of Bank's
sample bidding documents, and record keeping formats was common in each agency.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. The overall borrower performance based on all three Project areas, is rated satisfactory, although it
varied among the three provinces/state.
7.7.2. Nevertheless, the Government's financial management system used by the implementation agencies
remains poor, including weak internal control systems as reflected in qualified audit reports and insufficient
follow-up of significant audit observations. There is no system to control expenditures through an
integrated chart of accounts, thus opening the possibility for mis-classification of expenditures while
preparing SOEs. Because of inherent internal control weaknesses in the financial management system,
government auditors have made several observations showing serious weaknesses in the internal control
systems.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.   Overall
8.1.1. A demand-driven community-based project will be slow to take off, as it requires an aggressive
Information, Education, and Communication campaign to spread the word about the initiative, and for
community mobilization. This slow initial pace of implementation should be reflected in the
implementation and disbursement plan.
8.1.2. TA consultants to assist IAs should not be permitted to mobilize specialist staff more quickly than
IAs can mobilize their specialist counterparts, or the opportunity for technical transfer and hence systems'
sustainability can be lost.
8.1.3. Project rules need not exclude the benefits of political involvement in scheme selection, but should
exclude special benefits being gained by particular communities as a result, as this may adversely influence
the community's willingness to maintain the completed works.
8.1.4. For maximum effectiveness, sanitation information and training should be disseminated as a
package when the water supply scheme is being implemented.
8.1.5. Staff hired by lAs on a contractual basis for a Project become a scarce trained resource for the
provision of similar services in the future. Yet even if their value is generally accepted, their regularization
remains an issue if regular staff view them as lateral entrants to the service who affect their seniority
adversely, and hence tend to oppose their regularization. This concern needs to be mitigated adequately to
retain the trained staff.
8.1.6. The needs of rural communities are more than just one or two kinds of infrastructure and services.
They require an integrated approach offering a menu of services from which they can choose, based on
their priorities and affordability. Provision of such services, which need not all be provided
simultaneously, will help ensure sustained community interest in the Community Organ-ization and
encourage broad-based capacity building.
- 21 -



8.1.7. Where required, a separate Special Account should be provided for each IA.
8. 1.8. The use of ICB procedures for community infrastructure related equipment and material is not
feasible, and resulted in a delay of almost two years at the start of this Project. For such projects, the
emphasis should be on NCB and community contracting. Implementation arrangements should allow
beneficiary communities to take control of, or at least to influence as far upstream as feasible, scheme
planning and design, and to have the power of certification of any contractor's work prior to payment.
8.1.9. Adequate and appropriate procurement, accounting, M&E and auditing arrangements (including
incorporating base-line data for monitoring purposes) should be established at the outset, in line with
standard arrangements and any specific changes per project covenants or in legal documents.
8.1. 10. Appropriately qualified and experienced staff to handle financial management including, inter alia,
accounting, internal controls, financial reporting, disbursements, procurement, etc. as well as arrangements
to have timely project audits should be in place at Project commencement as required under OP/BP 10.02.
8.1.11. Involvement of the communities in various forms and levels of community contracting and
procurement resulted in greater ownership. The participation of the water and sanitation committees in the
procurement of pipes helped in bringing down the bid bracket vis-a-vis prior to community involvement.
However, there is a need to further refine the process through which community involvement can be
deepened and the benefits enhanced.
8.1.12. The project could not establish indicators and a monitoring system specific to measuring the
outputs and outcomes vis-a-vis the baseline and inputs to determine the achievement and sustainability of
the objectives. For future projects in the sector, there is a need to streamline indicators, ensure that good
base-line data exists, and pick a small number of standardized indicators for monitoring after the project
intervention is over.
8.2.   Additional Lessons from AJK
8.2.1. The communities shared in the capital costs in cash and kind. This translated into greater
ownership and indicated a demand for an improved service. The community share was based on the
concept of component sharing, which has major advantages over the percentage sharing model in terms of
ease of understanding and implementation of the different components, both institutionally and financially.
Furthermore, it gives the community the flexibility to pace their part of the construction in accordance with
their affordability and willingness to pay.
8.2.2. There were no staff turnovers below the Director LGRDD level. This resulted in continued
commitment, institutional memory, and understanding of the project and was a major reason for the success
of the component. Staff continuity was also responsible for greater departmental capacity building and
institutional strengthening, especially in terms of benefiting from the technical advisory consultants.
8.2.3. After the mid-term review, LGRDD decided to merge the project staff with the core staff of the
department, and implement the project through the whole department. The move from project directorate
implementation to a departmentally implemented approach helped capacity building and institutional
strengthening of the entire department, and was one of the key reasons why the pace of implementation
increased appreciably after the MTR.
8.3.   Additional Lessons from Sindh
8.3.1. The model of Project Implementation Teams (PITs), which combined designated social and
engineering staff as a team, was tried out for the first time in Sindh. The approach fared well and could be
considered in other provinces and projects. The model can be further improved by optimizing the skill mix
within the PITs and encouraging partnerships with NGOs, as was demonstrated successfully in the Sindh
Pilot Project (SPP).
8.3.2. The SPP broke the myth that Sindh's communities are not willing to contribute towards capital
costs. It demonstrated their willingness to contribute provided they have control over decision making, and
- 22 -



resulted in greater ownership and interest in appropriate technologies to correspondingly reduce costs.
Furthermore, the pilot also demonstrated that sharing can be by physical components rather than in
percentage terms. The SPP also demonstrated that the lAs can partner with NGOs to gain from the skills
and experience of the latter in social mobilization.
8.3.3. The development of an automated system for transferring government's share of O&M funds to the
bank accounts of the village organizations enabled the bypassing of government departrnents, thus ensuring
that the communities receive the funds on time.
8.4.   Additional Lessons from Balochistan
8.4.1. The selection of the beneficiary rural townships was not satisfactory. Some had benefited from
previous donor assisted initiatives, and in others the civil works were high cost. These issues were not
accounted for and selections were not critically evaluated, which resulted in implementation issues during
Project execution.
8.4.2. Community mobilization and participation remained deficient. The needs of the community were
therefore not reflected in the scheme designs. When implementation commenced, conmunities demanded
changes, which in tum escalated costs. Only towards the end of the Project was a concerted effort made to
inform beneficiaries in the two townships with completed water supply schemes of their responsibility to
pay for the services being provided.
8.4.3. Technical designs should cater for the local conditions. For example, where the annual
precipitation level is two inches on an average, open drains may not be appropriate.
8.4.4. Designs should attempt to allow for population growth in the time lag between design and
implementation, to avoid schemes falling short of providing coverage to recent inhabitants.
8.4.5. Whereas the completed water supply schemes are to be retained by the PHED for O&M, the
drainage schemes are to be transferred to the town committees. The latter is reluctant to take over the
schemes, since neither were they consulted during the design and implementation of the schemes, nor is it
anticipated that beneficiaries will be willing to pay for drainage alone.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.   Government contributions to the ICR were received from AJK LGRDD, Sindh PHED and RDD,
and Balochistan PHED and LGRDD. However, only Sindh PHED provided a summai) along with the
main contribution, which is provided below. The other contributions have been summarized and presented
below. All complete reports are available on file.
9.2.   AJK
9.2.1. Community participation concept in the RWSS sector was the practice in AJK well before start of
planning work of the AJK part of the project. The project further improved application of this concept.
Community participation was further strengthened and institutionalized and LGRDD provided resources to
the RWSS sector on priority basis. Without external assistance, maintaining this priority over eight years
duration would have been difficult. The project remained the focus of the LGRDD's efforts. This project
played leading role in improving the rural development approaches. Especially the RWSS sector policies,
procedures, and practices were broadly discussed and improved. This project has created an impact that
would keep its distinct identity for 4-5 decades to come. Lessons learnt as a result of this project would
continue providing foundation to future community based programs in AJK. Provision of improved RWSS
facilities in conjunction with institutional reforms was a difficult challenge. The project developed the
LGRDD's confidence by and by with progress of project implementation. Being implementing agency (IA)
- 23 -



of AJK's part of the project, the LGRDD developed its capabilities and got potential for undertaking larger
projects for economic and social development of AJK.
9.2.2. Objectives were sarne as mentioned in the main text of the ICR. As regards AJK part of the
project, achievement of these objectives is measurable and assessable on the basis of the following:
i. Maximum equity was ensured in the provision of water supply facilities and hence the poor were
main beneficiaries.
ii. Remote villages, relatively unattractive for frequent visits from the main centers, were hubs of
project activities which created casual employment opportunities for the locals during implementation.
For the O&M of the completed schemes, some new job opportunities became also available to the
locals.
iii. The AJK Government has become more committed to the development of backward villages. The
rural water supply activities have attracted other development activities.
iv. In commuunities where water supplies have been provided, initiation of activities at the level of
households has been noticed. These activities are expected to increase incomes and save expenditures.
Some of these household activities are:
*   Keeping of poultry, buffaloes, and cattle.
* Growing of vegetables and fruit trees, and
* More hours of labor inputs to farrns.
v. Water of better quality contributes to better health. The householders' medical expenditures
decreased. Statistics of the health department show reduction in the occurrence of diarrhea. There is a
general opinion that school participation rate has also increased in the water supply scheme areas.
vi. Unity of interest around the water supply facilities can be a vehicle for embarking upon other local
initiatives of the communities for collective benefits. This unity gave political strength to the
communities which can be a means of several other common benefits. Interaction arnong the water and
sanitation committee (WSC), the beneficiaries and the LGRDD's officials has injected a sense of good
governance.
vii. First and foremost beneficiaries of the water supply and latrine facilities are the women and
children. LGRDD feels that the project has prepared the ground for women's development in the riral
areas as, for selected water supply schemes, fornulation of separate women groups has been
facilitated.
9.2.3. Overall project management was with the key administration officers of the department. The
Director of LGRDD was also director of the project. He made operational decision under the control of the
Secretary. In the districts the pivotal operational role was with Assistant Directors. Engineers, community
development professionals and administration personnel assisted the Director in the Directorate. The
Assistant Engineers and Extension Officers assisted the Assistant Directors in the districts. The
consultants were engaged in the project for advisory and technical assistance services. Several training
activities were conducted in the project. Hands on training activities were preferred. The consultants and
the senior staff members of the LGRDD facilitated training events. In consultation with the World Bank,
the project engaged 4 NGOs (2 large and 2 small) on a pilot basis to carry out activities in the field of
health and hygiene in 8 villages.
9.2.4. Though LGRDD implemented AJK's part of the project, other government departments i.e.
Planning and Development, Home, Education, Health, Accountant General and Finance had some
relationship with the project for its coordination and administrative matters. Smooth sailing of the planning
and implementation of the project did need the cooperation of these departments. The local body institutions
such as district councils and union councils were also involved in the project activities. After their
dissolution there was no involvement of local elected representative leaders in the project activities at
- 24 -



village level. A water and sanitation committee (WSC) for each village/scheme was instituted. The WSC
played the main role at the village and community level in the planning, selection and construction of the
schemes.
9.2.5. This project also implemented additional activities, which were required under the SAP. The
uniform policy, sanitation policy, staff roles, selection criteria, extension and hygiene education modules,
technical options for household sanitation, design criteria and several other documents were drafted and
refined by the consultants and LGRDD officials.
9.2.6. Procurement procedures suggested in the project documents needed changes during implementation
of the project. There was an effort made during the start of the project to procure GI pipes and fittings
under ICB. This effort could not succeed and the procurement process under ICB was dropped.
Thereafter a procurement procedure was decided between the LGRDD and World Bank under which pipes
and fittings were purchased. This procedure provided for involvement of the communi-y in the
procurement process. LGRDD made the prequalification and post qualification of the bidders. Pipes and
fittings were purchased from the prequalified firms/manufactures from 1993 to October 1998. After 1998
the prequalification process was replaced by a postqualification process. Although the postqualification
process trained the staff in preparation of bid documents, it caused delay in the construction program.
LGRDD assessed that postqualification could not significantly decrease the prices as compared with the
prices approved during the prequalification process. The comnmunities placed supply orcders on the
successful bidders and received deliveries from them. Prequalification and local tendering procedures were
also used for the procurement of pumps and motors.
9.2.7. To sustain the capital investment level (under the project) is beyond means of lie LGRDD.
However, annual capital investments in RWSS would be around Rs.100 million (1.7 US$) from local
resources. This annual capital investment is expected to be raised 10 percent annually The operation and
maintenance of completed schemes rests with the local communities. The evaluation study confirmed that
hardly 5 % schemes had become nonfunctional. Functional schemes, which are 95 %, are being formally
and informally maintained by the beneficiary communities.
9.2.8. The supervision missions to the project were very few. The project benefited from the missions.
They helped LGRDD in resolving management and implementation issues. The target approach suggested
during the MTR mission concentrated the LGRDD's focus mrore on the physical aspects of the project. The
six monthly targets were fixed in the MTR and thus LGRDE) was put under pressure. LGRDD met the
targets. But a step by step approach, needed for community participation and strengthening, had to be
attuned to the targets. LGRDD expected more frequent visits of the missions. The World Bank also
facilitated visitors from intemational and national entities to the project. On average, 4 visitor groups
visited the project annually. In procurement matters, lengthy correspondence between LGRDD and the
World Bank affected the construction program. Supervision missions, whenever they visited AJK, held
detailed discussions with the LGRDD and other coordination agencies. Some of the recommendations
made by the mission could not be implemented due to coordination and administrative problems. These
recommendations include establishment of M&E/MIS, regularization of project staff, procurement of
additional vehicles, strengthening of accounting system and integration of sanitation program with the
departments of health and education.
9.2.9. The Water and Sanitation Program for South Asia (vWSP-SA) team provided technical support to
the project. The project engineers received training for computer aided designs from the WSP-SA technical
member. The WSP-SA support to the project in community participation matters was not as high as was
expected.
- 25 -



9.2.10. The project aimed to improve upon previous community participation approaches, strengthen the
LGRDD's capacity and introduce policy reforms. The lessons learned were very valuable. They were
continually used for the evolution of policies, procedures and processes. Some of the important lessons are
described here below:
*   Communities have shown their great willingness to contribute substantially to community
infrastructure. The higher level of service attracted increased contributions. Component sharing was a
simple method for communities to follow.
*   Determination of real demand needed careful examination. Spurious and politically motivated demands
often created problems in implementation. The more the stake of the communities was involved, the
more they became truly participatory.
*   Community mobilization and organization work demands patience. The IA's staff should be given
appropriate time for this work. Only such communities should be selected about whom proper
indicators of their mobilization and organization have become well evident.
*   Entrusting more responsibility and delegation of more authority to be community organizations
established a sense of strong ownership. Notables having vested interests could be sidelined through
spread of project information among the communities.
9.3.   Sindh
PHED
9.3.1. The Sindh Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project was approved by ECNEC in September
1990 for a cost of Rs. 2151.237 million and the Credit Agreement signed on 31.07.1991. The Project vas
implemented by Sindh Public Health Engineering Department & Rural Development Department with their
approximate share as 85% and 15 % respectively in civil works. The Project was sponsored by IDA and
Government of Sindh at a cost ratio of 77% and 23% respectively.
9.3.2. A MTR of the Project was undertaken in November/December 1995 where it was agreed to down
size the Project with the PHED portion being reduced, in Rupees terms, to Rs. 2064.2 million. The Sindh
share of the loan was reduced from SDR 50.00 million to SDR 35.00 million.
9.3.3. The original main objectives of the Project concerning PHED are not only physical implementation
of the Water Supply and Sanitation Project but also the institutional strengthening of PHED.
9.3.4. Health Impact study was undertaken in 73 villages, showed an overall 50.5% reduction in diseases,
with the implementation of integrated approach of three components, water supply, sanitation and village
level health and hygiene education of RWSS project.
9.3.5. The infrastructure development objective is achieved by the construction of the following schemes.
(i)    Mechanized Water Supply Scheme (New) - 185 schemes (Population Coverage 319,641)
(ii)    Mechanized Drainage Schemes (New) - 69 schemes (Population Coverage 139,577)
(iii)   Rehabilitation of existing Water Schemes & Drainage - 238 number (Population Coverage
387,645)
(iv)   Demonstrated Pit Latrines - 242 number
9.3.6. Institutional Strengthening Program achievements included the creation of Training cell,
Hydrogeological, Community Participation and Hygiene Education, and Management Information (MIS)
cell.
- 26 -



9.3.7. The Government of Sindh was supported the policy and approved in February 1993 as the "Unified
Policy" to be applied not only the World Bank Project but to all schemes of ADP and SAP, whether new,
on-going or completed
9.3.8. Electrification of schemes was the major factor affecting the achievement of prcject objectives. The
power connections are still awaited on 154 Schemes including 100 new Water Supply, 32 new drainage
and 22 rehabilitation schemes.
9.3.9. The assessment of the increased productivity levels after the implementation of lile schemes shows
a time and energy savings. The saving time ranges from 4 to 7 hours daily. Women reallocated saved times
to productive activities such as sewing, embroidery, Rilli works, Cotton picking, transplanting and
harvesting of crops, cattle farming. The improved RWSS schemes also boosts children's school attendance
rate and energy savings helps in devoting more time to study and income generating activities.
9.3.10. Sustainability is rated as uncertain at this time. A schemes condition and the VDA performance
survey was conducted during September 2000. The survey results indicated that, there were 467 (94.9%)
schemes fully functional. 11 (2.3 %) schemes were partially functional due to some technical or social
problems and 14 (2.8%) schemes were non-operational due to non-availability of power connections.
9.3.11. The overall IDA and borrower performance is considered as satisfactory. IDA had invested
considerable resources and efforts to support the GoSindh to test the new strategy involvring a high degree
of community participation.
9.3.12. The funds for the government's portion of the 0 & M costs, are being transferred in VDAs
accounts. There are 257 VDAs which have received the funds to date
9.3.13. There were 12 schemes completed under Sindh pilot project. The overall aim of the pilot project
was "to test and demonstrate a new set of project rules and implementation procedures for a demand based
approach to Rural Water Supply and sanitation provision involving the people, Government and
non-formal organization/private sector and participatory methodologies."
9.3.14. Key lessons learned that Partnership with Community improves effectiveness and efficiency of
schemes and brings sustainability and the myth that communities cannot bear full 0 & M costs has been
broken.
RDD
9.3.15. The overall outcome of the project is just satisfactory as the varying target have been met in spite
of the non-conducive situations faced from time to time by the implementers. The primary object outcome
can be narrated as follows:
i)     Mechanism is needed to implement the project at the grass root level and ensuring community
participation.
ii)    There is need for development of system and procedure for involving communities.
iii)    Creation of cadre of partner organizations is absolutely necessary.
iv)    Community ownership for the sustainability has more or less been achieved.
v)     Recognition of need for continued support to newly emerging community orgarizations is acutely
felt.
vi)    Development of training and MIS mechanism needs to be speeded up.
vii)   Institutional strengthening is wanting but can be remedied.
- 27 -



viii)   Only low level technical assistance is sufficient to cater to such project.
9.3.16. Health impact indicators show the gradual fall in reported cases of water bome and water washed
diseases during the period 1992-93 to 1999-2000. The RDD components, i.e., Hand Pumps, Latrines and
Health and Hygiene Education contributed in bringing down the ratio of a such diseases besides the inputs
applied by the line departnents running health/hygiene programs. Messages conveyed by field Project
Implementation Teams (PITs) comprising of skilled and trained male and female workers have brought
behavioral changes particularly in women and children with regards to health and hygiene practices which
resulted in following and adopting preventive measures. The figures are substantiated by the health
department Government of Sindh as well. Hence the project had an overall satisfactory effect health w ise.
9.3.17. From the survey conducted in randomly selected villages, 93% of Hand Pumps, 52% House Hold
Latrines, and 97% of Demonstration Latrines have been found functional which endorses the fact that
communities have benefited from the facilities and the rate of recurrence of diseases has diminished to a
considerable extent, i.e., 71% in Larkana and 81% in Sukkur and Ghotki Districts. Survey reports reseal
that 30 to 40% hygienic conditions of the villages have been improved due to motivational efforts of the
PITs.
9.3.18. It has been assessed by the survey teams that the rural women folk are adequately using time saved
out of the facilities provided under the project in traditional income generating activities, i.e., embroidery,
dairy farming etc. In addition taking part in agrarian and other social works through women groups formed
under the project. From the survey reports it transpires that the poverty level has decreased in the
communities where time spent on curative measures and labor cost has been taken over by the preventive
measures through provision of water supply and better sanitary condition. The saving of man hours in
healthy environments particularly for the female and children has contributed towards exploring new ways
and means of earning, educating and nourishment of the children in a better manner.
9.3.19. Community participation remained the important component of the project. It could be interpreted
that project was for, of and by the communities. The survey report also indicates that almost all the village
based organizations are actively involved not only in RWSS project but also in other socio-economic
activities.
9.3.20. Thus in RDD's assessment the Project has successfully provided a sustainable and financially
viable approach to community based management and 0 & M. The very limited, but valuable information
with RDD shows that the communities if provided with technical and partially financial assistance, their
greater share could be ensured in the community based programs. The survey report reveals that the
communities are inclined to replicate the low cost water supply and sanitation schemes manifestation of
which is quite visible in the form of rural people's increasing tendencies towards constructing household
latrines and installing the hand pumps on self help basis.
9.3.21. The key lesson learned are as under:
*   In order to sustain the long term benefits of the project, a follow-up plan be launched out of local
resources, manpower, government organizations & NGOs instead of relying upon the foreign credit.
*   The need is not only to increase the coverage of rural water supply and sanitation in terms of figures
but also equally important to make people aware about importance of health and hygiene by
communicating the appropriate messages through inter-personal contacts, audio visual aids, mass
media, hand bills and posters etc.
- 28 -



9.4.   Balochistan
PHED
9.4.1. One of the objectives of Balochistan Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project was to improve
rural productivity and health particularly of women and children. This objective was to be achieved by
reducing the water borne diseases by providing the water supply and sanitation facilities and village level
health and hygiene education. The provincial Health Department operates an organized system of
hospitals, rural health centers and basic health units. The record of all type of diseases is maintained by
them. To study the health impact due to improved water supply system no proper monitoring has been
carried out. The informal information from Health Department reveal that the improved water supply
system has definitely contributed towards reduction of water borne diseases i.e. diarrhea, malaria etc.
Anyhow improvement in health is highly correlated with literacy, level of female education, and income
rather than the level of water and sanitation services. It has been assumed that supply of water at the
doorstep of the rural population will result in time saving and time so saved will be used in an income
producing activity. In fact, women in the rural areas of Balochistan do not have excess 1.o wage
employment and thus the exact value of productivity can not be sorted out, but they have some ways of
increasing their income i.e. petty trading, tailoring, growing food on household plots, handicrafts, etc.
Exact income figures are not possible to work out but only a rough guess can be made.
9.4.2. While launching the project it was assumed that it will have a significant impact on alleviation of
poverty. In short term measure the project activities did provide temporary employment. As long terms
measures for reducing poverty the time saving of rural people specially of women has been guessed to be
major factor for increasing the rural productivity. No reliable statistics are available proving the fact that
an increase in income due to time saving has occurred in the rural population. Rural water supply and
sanitation has reduced the disparity in access to services between rich and poor by prov ision of house water
connections regardless of status.
9.4.3. In order to achieve the objectives PHED had to undergo institutional strengthening to find new
dimensions to improve its procedures and methods of project implementation, and also training in social
mobilization so that rural water supply and drainage schemes could be sustained by the local communities.
For institutional strengthening the PHED created a Planing and Design Circle headed by Director General
and a Chief Engineer Office for south zone of the province. 'The foreign consultants wh;o were appointed to
assist with institutional strengthening made a number of recommendations. There was, however, a
significant disconnect between these and what PHED did in practice. In particular, the recommendation for
creation of various cells was either ignored altogether or the decision came too late. Thlis badly affected
performance, as a result, the objectives relating to Management Information System, Training Cell, Design
Cell, Planning Cell and Hydrogeological cell could only be achieved in a very little way.
9.4.4. Major factors affecting implementation and achievernent of objectives are:
*   Rapid changes of top government officials and frequent transfer of project managernent authorities
* Scarcity of resources and economic crisis due to frequent changes of government
*   Poor identification of Township water supply and drainage schemes
* Poor capability of contractors
*   Delayed energization of schemes
*   Bank procedures for procurement of goods and works
*   Consultants were not aware of the local conditions
9.4.5. At the start of the project and up to Midterm Review all the decisions from Bank side were made
from its Headquarters at Washington USA. This was hampering the progress as the decisions were made
- 29 -



very late. Therefore the Bank's follow-up and monitoring of the project up to midterm review mission
November 1995 was very much unsatisfactory. The visits of supervisory mission were not carried out
regularly. However after the mid-term review the performance of the Bank was improved. The Bank/IDA
made considerable efforts to support GOB in project implementation and provided remarkable guidance for
the smooth execution of different works. A number of workshops for community participation were
arranged by the Bank mission which resulted in understanding the importance of community involvement,
monitoring procedures and financial management in a project.
9.4.6. The key lesson leamed from the project include following:
*   Before starting any future project, social mobilization and social surveys are essential. During
implementation of RWSS this shortcoming has been felt badly.
*   In rural areas of Balochistan regular community contact between community development staff and
rural communities in only possible if proper transport facilities are made available. The movement of
female community development staff in the far flung areas of province requires significant support
from senior management of the department.
LGRDD
9.4.7. Work on LGRDD component could not be started till 1998 due to the issue of a separate Special
Account and release of insufficient and late counterpart budget by the Government of Balochistan. The
World Bank was requested through the Chief Secretary Balochistan and Planning and Development
Department Government of Balochistan to either extend the left over 12 months project period to 24
months with subsidy, or to withdraw the project. The World Bank did not agree to the extension request.
Finally the Government of Balochistan requested the cancellation of the LGRDD component.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
1 0.1. Financial Management Issues
10.1.1. Sindh-PHED
The TA set up a good MIS system, however, the financial management and reporting system was not fully
integrated and staff were not trained to fully operate the system. In the audit reports, all financial
statements required were provided except detailed expenditure statements. However audit reports for all
years were qualified with significant audit observations remaining outstanding.
10. 1.2. Sindh-RDD
Although the post of an Accounts Officer existed it lay vacant for long periods, and the Accounts Section
was looked after by officers responsible for other jobs. All audit reports were qualified and significant
audit observations remained outstanding.
- 30 -



10.1.3. Balochistan-PHED
An attempt was made by the Director Finance in 1996 to introduce an integrated accounting system.
However the Secretary of the Department directed that the government system should be continued. Had
the integrated system been implemented several of the financial management issues could have been
resolved/minimized. In some cases only audit opinions were submitted, and in one year an opinion was not
attached to the Audit Report. Except for one year, the opinions were unqualified. Annotated replies were
submitted by the department against outstanding observations but the issues have not been resolved by the
Auditor General's office.
10. 1.4. AJK-LGRDD
Pre-audit of all transactions and effective monitoring of expenditure against budget was carried out. A
comprehensive computerized MIS, although developed, could not be made operational. The auditors issued
qualified opinions for two years. There are significant outstanding observations. There is a serious
internal control issue regarding non-adjustment of advances on a timely basis (IDA was informed that these
were issued from the government's account).
10.1.5. As significant audit observations remain unresolved, IDA will carry out a detailed review of these
observations to determine the extent of any ineligible expenses and appropriate action w ill be decided.
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
lndlcator(Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in water supply and sanitation                                      Improved water supply coverage increased to
coverage in the project areas                                                 2.2 million
Reduction in water-borne diseases, and                                       There has been a reduction in water-bome
morbidity                                                                    diseases and morbidity
Sustainable O&M of schemes by the                                             More than 95 percent schemes are
communities                                                                  operational with communities operating and
maintaining them
Lower O&M recurrent budget for the                                           The recurrent budget in Sindh has reduced
govemment
Enhanced level of ownership by the                                            Empirical evidence indicates that the
communities                                                                  communities own the schemes. In AJK, the
level of ownership is more because tie
communities have contributed in the capital
costs
Reduction in drudgery for women and                                          The service level has increased with the
children in hauling water from distance                                       result water is available at the doorsteps or
inside the house
Free time available for women to look after                                  Surveys and interviews indicate that 6vomen
children and undertake other activities                                       have more free time as a result of water
available at the doorsteps or inside the house
School attendance of children increased                                      School attendance and enrollment has
increased, particularly of girls
All segments of the settlements participated                                  Complete revenue villages were provided the
in the project                                                               service with the result that all segments of
the community were covered
Introduced sharing in capital cost by                                        The Sindh Pilot Project introduced the
communities                                                                  concept of capital cost sharing in terms of
component sharing
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of community organizations formed  2,200                                 3, 080
No. of water supply schemes completed  1,700                                  1,780
No. of drainage schemes completed     60                                     69
No. of existing water supply schemes  265                                    253
rehabilitated
No. of demonstration and household latrines                                   15,400
constructed
No. of hand-pumps installed            2,750                                 2,580
Population served under the project    1.5 million                           2.2 million
End of project
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActualA.atest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Civil Work - AJK                                      1.70           2.60        152.94
Equipment, Material - AJK                            16.52          18.02        109.08
Consultancy Services, Training - AJK                 6.95             i.56        51.22
Incremental Staff - AJK                              2.40            2.57        107.08
Civil Work -Balochistan                              11.40           6.48         56.84
Equipment, Material - Balochistan                    14.38           4.24         29.49
Consultancy Services, Training - Balochistan         12.05           6.20         51.45
Incremental Staff - Balochistan                      0.00
Civil Work - Sindh                                  48.30           25.06         51.88
Equipment, Material - Sindh                          3.40            0.26          7.65
Consultancy Services, Training - Sindh               16.00          1(.88           68
Incremental Staff - Sindh                            3.60            [.64         45.56
Total Baseline Cost                                 136.70          81.51
Total Project Costs            136.70          81.51
Total Financing Required            136.70           81.51
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ICB       Procurement Method'           .B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         OtherT
1. Works                     0.00         87.10         0.00         (.00         87.10
(0.00)      (61.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (61.40)
2. Goods                     32.60         0.00         7.90         (.00         40.50
(28.80)      (0.00)        (5.50)       (0.00)      (34.30)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         35.00        (.00         35.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (35.00)       (O.00)      (35.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         6.00         (.00         6.00
Incremental staff           (0.00)        (0.00)       (6.00)        (0.00)       (6.00)
5. Miscellaneous, Duties &   0.00          0.00         21.60        (.00         21.60
Taxes                        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         4.00         0.00         4.00
Land                         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1).00)       (0.00)
Total                     32.60         87.10        74.50         0.00        194.20
(28.80)      (61.40)      (46.50)       (0.00)      (136.70)
- 33 -



roject Costs by Procuremet Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00          45.79          0.00           4.36          50.15
(0.00)        (34.14)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (34.14)
2. Goods                         5.49          18.81           4.32          0.00          28.62
(4.34)        (17.92)        (0.26)         (0.00)        (22.52)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          20.81          0.00          20.81
(0.00)         (0.00)        (20.64)        (0.00)        (20.64)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           5.10           0.00          5.10
Incremental staff               (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.21)         (0.00)        (4.21)
5. Miscellaneous, Duties &       0.00           0.00           0.39          0.00           0.39
Taxes                           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.93          0.00           0.93
Land                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         5.49          64.60          31.55           4.36         106.00
(4.34)        (52.06)        (25.11)        (0.00)       i(81.51)
N.B.F. - community contribution towards civil works
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
a Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Esimate            ActualfLatest Estimate
IDA      Govt.      CoF.       MA        Govt      CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
1. Civil Works           61.40     15.60      10.10     34.14      10.78     5.42     55.6   69.1   53.7
2. Equipment- Material   34.30      6.20                22.52      6.08               65.7   98.1
3. Consultancy Services  35.00                          20.64                         59.0
4. Incremental Staff      6.00                          4.21       0.89               70.2
5. Duties and Taxes                21.60                           0.39                      23.3
6. Land                             4.00                           0.93                      23.3
Total                    136.70    47.40      10.10     81.51      19.07     5.42     59.6   40.2   53.7
- 34 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Approach and Assumptions adopted for ERR Calculation during Appraisal and ICR
AJK
According to government estimates, almost 100,000 households in the rural areas of AJK were receiving
water supply under the project, leading to an average increase in consumption of 2.5 gallons per person and
an average time-saving from collecting water of 9 hours per household on each day, of which 10 percent is
being allocated to income generating purposes. Based on these government estimates, the project could
realize an ERR of 31 percent, being significantly higher than the appraisal estimate of 11 percent. The
sensitivity analysis revealed that the results are highly sensitive to variations in the benefit stream, being
primarily determined by the assessed hours of saved and avoided time for collecting water. When lowering
the estimates of time-savings from 9 to 5 (appraisal estimate) and 3 hours per househo6ld per day, the ERR
drops to 13 and 3 percent, respectively. The estimated allocation of time savings towards income generation
- 10 percent, assumed both during appraisal and for the ICR calculation) - is both conservative and likely
to increase over time as opportunities for women's participation in income generation develop. The
presented values for the ERR are therefore likely understated.
Sindh
Almost 250,000 people (current population) have benefited from the establishment of new water supply
schemes in the province of Sindh. (Despite a significant portion of Sindh's component being used for the
rehabilitation and upgrading of old water supply and drainage schemes, the lack of data on the marginal
costs and benefits of those sub-components prevents their inclusion here. Also during the mid-term review
it was established that the initial targets could not be met by project closure, and Sinclh's component was
downsized significantly.) The appraisal economic analysis assessed an ERR of 17 percent, based on the
estimate that an average of 3.3 hours per day per household would be saved due to improved water
supplies, and 27 percent of the saved time would be allocated to income generation activities. The costs
included both capital and operating costs for water supply investments and institutional development costs.
Even under more favorable estimates for time-savings (5 hours/HJ/day) and allocation of time towards
income generation (60 percent) provided by the Government of Sindh for the ICR calculation, a
comparable level of the ERR can only be established when institutional development costs are omitted in
the calculation. In a sensitivity analysis the following iterations on the daily hours saved per household and
the percentage of the time saved that has been allocated towards income generating purposes were
conducted under different assumptions on the value of the institutional development costs. These results are
displayed in the table below.
- 35 -



Table 1: Sindh - Possible Values for the ERR
Allocation of Time towards Income Generation
Time Savings               27 percent       40 percent        60 percent
excluding Institutional Development Cost
2                       n/c               n/c              n/c
3.3                      2%               5%                8%
5                       9%               12%              17%
including Institutional Development Cost (@10 percent of capital costs)
2                       n/c               n/c              n/c
3.3                      n/c              3 %              7 %
5                       7%               11 %             15%
including Institutional Development Cost (@30 percent of capital costs)
2                       n/c               n/c              n/c
3.3                      n/c              1%               5 %
5                       5%               8%               12%
n/c: not calculable, ERR below 0
Balochistan
The economic analysis at appraisal included an assessment of the costs and benefits derived from (a) the
rehabilitation of rural water supply schemes; (b) the provision of water supply schemes for townships; and
(c) an institutional development and reform program for the PHED. The overall ERR for all three
sub-components was assessed at 13.1 percent during appraisal. For lack of quantifiable data the ICR
economic analysis could not replicate the benefits arising from the institutional development and reform
program. Its costs are included in the ERR for the entire project, but are excluded from the component (a)
and (b) which will be discussed in more detail below. Overall, this component has not performed.
(a) Rehabilitation of rural water supply schemes. Only in the 8th year - the last year - of implementation,
this sub-component has extended water supply services to 2,700 households. Even under the government
estimate of an actual 7 hours/HH/day of time saved - being high compared to the 1.8 estimate during
appraisal - the ERR and NPV are negative. This is not surprising, giving that O&M cost incurred by the
government are about ten times higher than the assessed benefits from time-savings, resulting in a negative
net benefit stream throughout the assessment period.
(b) Township water supply schemes. Two schemes out of an expected number of eight were delivering
water supply to 10,302 beneficiary household in the 8th year of project implementation. Even when
excluding any institutional development assistance, and while assuming 100 percent tariff collection, based
on stated (and not actual) tariff collection objectives by the Government of Balochistan for the future years,
the ERR is only 2 percent. Provided that the cost estimate by PHED for operation and maintenance (Rs.
1 16 thousand/annum) in the 8th year is reflecting actual and non-subsidized cost, these could be more than
covered by the benefit-streams derived from proposed tariff collection (Rs 2.6 million/annum). A forward
look would be to ascertain the establishment of a commercially-oriented regime for the operation and
maintenance of the assets provided under the project, in order to ensure their sustainability.
Details of these calculations are given in the following table.
- 36 -



Appraisal                     ICR
worst  _   medium          best
General
Time Horizon                                          20 years      20 years     20 years      20 years
project life   asset life   asset life    asset life
Prices in constant 1989 prices, converted by CPI        yes           yes           yes          yes
Standard Conversion Factor                               1              1            1            I
Economic Cost (net of taxes)                            yes           yes           yes          yes
AJK
time-savings (incl. incremental consumption) in          5             3             5            9
hours/HH/day
women 's wages (Rs./day)                            Rs. 11.2/day    Rs. 11.2/day   Rs. 11.2/day   Rs. 11.2/day
in 1989       in 1989      in 1989       in 1989
value of leisure (in percent of shadow wage)            30%           30%          30%           30%
time allocation for income generation (/)              10%           10%          10%           10%
institutional development cost included                 yes           yes           yes          yes
other cost included                                      no            no           no            no
Sindh
time savings (incl. incremental consumption) in         3.3            2            3.3           5
hours/HH/day
shadow wagefor women (Rs./day)                       Rs. 14.1/day    Rs. 14.1/day   Rs.14.1/day   Rs. 14.1/day
in 1989       in 1989      in 1989       in 1989
value of leisure (in percent of shadow wage)            30%           30%          30%           30%
time allocation for income generation (%)               27%           60%          60%           60%
household size                                          10            10           10            10
institutional development cost included                 yes         at 30% of    at 10% of        no
capital cosi   capital cost
other cost included                                      no            no           no            no
Balochistan
Rehabilitation Component
time savings (incl. incremental consumption) in         1.8            1            1.8           7
hours/HH/day
women's wages (Rs./day)                             Rs.10.4/day   Rs.10.4/day   Rs.10.4/day   Rs.10.4/day
in 1989       in 1989      in 1989       in 1989
time allocationfor income generation (%O)               n/a           10%           10%          10%
value of leisure (in percent of shadow wage)            30%           30%          30%           30%
institutional development cost included                  no            no           no            no
other cost included                                      no            no           no            no
Township Component
willingness-to-pay or tariff in Rs./month           Rs.38/month   Rs.58/monih. Rs.58/month  Rs.58/month
in 1989      in 2000       in 2000       in 2000
tariff collection rate                                 100 %          50 %         75 %         100 %
institutional development cost included                  no            no           no            no
other cost included                                      no            no           no            no
Institutional Component
costs                                                   yes       the actual costs are included for calculating
the project ERR, but not the benefits
Figures provided by the government for actual time-savings are inclusive of the incremental amount consumed due to the project.
- 37 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                                       ._.
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Pcrsons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                       Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1988                    4    1 Ec, 2 WSS, I E
June 1988                     1    1 Ec
December 1988                 6   3 WSS, I FS, I D, I IDS
August 1989                   5    1 Ec, 4 WSS
October 1990                  5   3 WSS, I FS, I D
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1990                 4   2 WSS, 2 FS
Supervision
October 1992                   5   1 WSS, 2 FS, I E, I CDS
May 1993                       4   1 WSS, I IDS, I E, ICDS
September 1993                 5   1 WSS, 3 E, I Ec
February 1994                  2   l IDS, I E
July 1994                      3  I WSS, 2 E
January 1995                   3  2E, 1 C
November 1995                  5  3 E, I FS, ID                         U                  S
June 1996                      2  2 E                                   S                  S
March 1997                     3   1 F, 2 E                             S                  S
November 1997                  2  I F, I E                              U                  S
September 1998                 6  1 each E, IDS, CDS, P, FMS, D         U                  S
April 1999                     7  2 E, I ea. CDS, FMS, P, IDS, D        S                  S
November 1999                  7  2 E, I ea. CDS, FMS, P, IDS, D        S                  S
June 2000                      4  2 E, I IDS, I CDS                     S                  S
ICR
October 2000                   7   2 E, I P, I D, 2 FMS, I IDS
Ec=Economist; E=Engineer; IDS=Institutional Development Specialist; CDS=Community Development
Specialist; FS=Financial Specialist; FMS=Financial Management Specialist; P=Procurement Specialist;
D=Disbursement Specialist; WSS=Water and Sanitation Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 45                        161.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                       8                         32.0
Supervision                               291                        526.0
ICR                                        23                         46.0
Total                                     367                        765.5
- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
DMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
IFinancial                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
M Gender                           O H * SU O M O N O NA
D Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
N Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
M Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
@ Supervision                                        OHS OS  Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
@ Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U   O HU
@ Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
? Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
F Overall                                            OHS Os  OU   OHU
- 40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aide Memoires of Preparation, Appraisal and Supervision Missions. World Bank 1987-2000
Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. April 4, 1991
Project Agreement between International Development Association and Province of Sindh and
Province of Balochistan and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. Credit Number 2228 PAX. July 31, 1991.
Development Credit Agreement between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International
Development Association. Credit Number 2228 PAK. July 31, 1991.
Strategic Provincial Investment Plan and Project Preparation for Rural Water Supply, Sanitation
and Health. September 1989. Wardrop-Acres, Cowater International and Nespak..
Sindh Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project for the Public Health Engineeiing Department
Sindh, Health Impact Studies, Assessment of Completed 50 Schemes. August 1999
Project Preparation Study, AJK, Engineering Consultants Int. (Pvt.) Ltd., June 2000
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Financial Management Study, June 2000, Naveed
Saeed
SAP Aide Memoires, 1993-2000
Community Participation Strategies and Tools, A Trainers' Manual for the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Sector in Pakistan. MLGRD, UNDP, UNICEF, UNDP/World Bank RWSG-SA.
Community Participation in Rural Water Supply Projects in Northern Punjab and AJK, An
Exploratory Study. June 1994. MLGRD, UNDP, UNICEF, UNDP/World Bankc RWSG-SA.
Management Information Systems for Water Supply and Sanitation Agencies. The Need for
Strengthening. November 1992. MLGRD, UNDP, UNICEF, UNDP/World Bank RWSG-SA.
- 41 -



