Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2228 PAK
            (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 31, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2228 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1991, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Province
of Sindh (Sindh), the Province of Balochistan
(Balochistan) and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Sindh, Balochistan
and AJK the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith among the Association and Sindh, Balochistan and
AJK;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
      (b)   "Balochistan" means the Province of
Balochistan, a political subdivision of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto;
      (c)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and
Kashmir, or any successor thereto;
      (d)   "PHED" means the Public Health Engineering
Department;
      (e)   "RDD" means the Rural Development Department;
      (f)   "LGRDD" means the Local Government and Rural
Development Department;
      (g)   "P&D" means the Planning and Development
Department;
      (h)   "DOH" means the Department of Health;
      (i)   "RWSS scheme" means a rural water supply and
sanitation scheme;
      (j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among
the Association and Sindh, Balochistan and AJK of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (k)   "Special Accounts" mean collectively the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and more fully defined in paragraphs (l)
through (n) of this Section, and "Special Account" means
each and any such account;
      (l)   "Sindh Special Account" means the Special
Account which Sindh shall open and maintain pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c)
of the Project Agreement;
      (m)   "Balochistan Special Account" means the Special
Account which Balochistan shall open and maintain
Page  3
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and
Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
      (n)   "AJK Special Account" means the Special Account
which AJK shall open and maintain pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement;
      (o)   "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
      (p)   "FY" and "fiscal year" mean the period July 1
through June 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-six
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
96,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of their
respective parts of the Project, cause Sindh, Balochistan
and AJK  to open and maintain in dollars special deposit
accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
2000 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
Page  4
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15
in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2001 and
ending January 15, 2026. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 15, 2011
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary, LGRDD,
Sindh, the Secretary, PHED, Balochistan, and the
Secretary, LGRDD, AJK are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions, in respect of the parts of the
Project to be carried out in Sindh, Balochistan and AJK,
respectively.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  5
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause Sindh, Balochistan and AJK to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of Sindh, Balochistan and AJK therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Sindh, Balochistan and AJK to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available as follows:
            (i)   to Sindh, in an amount equivalent to
                  about SDR 50,000,000, for the purposes of
                  Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project;
           (ii)   to Balochistan, in an amount equivalent
                  to about SDR 26,600,000, for the purposes
                  of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project; and
          (iii)   to AJK, in an amount equivalent to about
                  SDR 19,800,000, for the purposes of Parts
                  A.3 and B.3 of the Project.
      (c)   Without limitation to the generality of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
maintain within its Ministry of Local Government and
Rural Development a Policy Investment Review Committee,
with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, to provide policy guidance and
coordination at the federal level to the departments and
agencies of Sindh, Balochistan and AJK responsible for
carrying out the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement as follows:
      (a)   in respect of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project,
by Sindh;
      (b)   in respect of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project,
by Balochistan; and
      (c)   in respect of Parts A.3 and B.3 of the Project,
by AJK.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
Page  6
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least
                  one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   Sindh, Balochistan or AJK shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Sindh, Balochistan or AJK will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (c)   The Sindh Finance (Amendment) Ordinance (Sindh
Ordinance No. III of 1991) shall have been amended,
Page  7
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of Sindh to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   that the event specified in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
and
      (b)   that the event specified in paragraph (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the PC-1 documents with respect to the Project
have been approved by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC); and
      (b)   the Project consultants required for the
purposes specified in (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement have
been appointed pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Sindh, Balochistan and AJK,
respectively, and is legally binding upon Sindh,
Balochistan and AJK, respectively, in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section
Officer of that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
Page  8
     For the Borrower:
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad
            Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                   952-5634
                  Islamabad
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA), 
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
     for:
     (a) Sindh                  25,860,000              85%
     (b) Balochistan             6,200,000              60%
Page  9
     (c) AJK                       915,000              75%
(2)  Equipment                                  100% of foreign
     and materials                              expenditures,
     for:                                       100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                                and 50% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured
                                                locally
     (a) Sindh                   1,690,000
     (b) Balochistan             8,455,000
     (c) AJK                     9,160,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services and
     training for:
     (a) Sindh                   9,585,000
     (b) Balochistan             7,190,000
     (c) AJK                     4,085,000
(4)  Incremental staff                          100%
     costs for:
     (a) Sindh2,045,000
     (b) Balochistan 0
     (c) AJK1,340,000
(5)  Unallocated for:
     (a) Sindh                  10,815,000
     (b) Balochistan             4,830,000
     (c) AJK                     4,230,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  96,400,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
      (c)   the term "incremental staff costs" means the
salaries, allowances and other emoluments of, and other
Page  10
costs related to, the  additional staff recruited or
reassigned for carrying out the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000, in
the case of Sindh, SDR 2,800,000, in the case of
Balochistan and SDR 1,060,000, in the case of AJK, may be
made out of the proceeds of the Credit on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
December 1, 1989; and (b) payments made for expenditures
for RWSS schemes which do not satisfy the criteria set
forth in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve
the health and productivity of the population,
particularly women and children, thereby reducing poverty
and deprivation, in the Project areas; and, to this end
(b) to increase the coverage and service levels of water
supply and sanitation facilities in those areas; (c) to
strengthen the implementation and coordination capacity
of the institutions involved in the rural water supply
and sanitation sector; and (d) to assist in the
implementation of a sustainable and financially viable
policy under which responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of rural water supply and sanitation
facilities would pass from government agencies to the
communities benefitting from such facilities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Development of Infrastructure
1.    In Sindh:
      (a)   Construction of about 300 new village
            mechanized water supply schemes in Sukkar,
            Tharparker, Sanghar, Dadu, Larkana, Khairpur,
            Jacobabad, Hyderabad, Karachi and Thatta
            districts;
      (b)   Construction of about 1800 new village non-
            mechanized water supply schemes in Sukkar and
            Larkana districts;
      (c)   Construction of about 730 new village non-
            mechanized water supply schemes in the Arid
            Zones, based on hand-dug wells, and including
            construction or rehabilitation of about 110
            check dams and related structures;
      (d)   Carrying out of a pilot water supply program,
            based on development of scavenger wells;
      (e)   Construction of about 60 new village drainage
            schemes, associated with piped water supply
            systems, in Sukkar, Sanghar, Larkana,
            Khairpur, Jacobabad and Hyderabad districts,
            and about 40 new village drainage schemes,
            associated with mechanized private well water
            supply systems, in Nawabshah and Shikarpur
            districts, all based on open drains to carry
Page  11
            sullage water to oxidation ponds for treatment
            before disposal;
      (f)   Provision of about 110 individual on-site
            drainage units and about 25 small communal
            drainage systems for sullage water disposal;
      (g)   Rehabilitation of about 480 village water
            supply and drainage schemes;
      (h)   Construction, integrally with the water supply
            schemes to be carried out under (a) and (c)
            above, of about 3,000 demonstration latrines,
            and provision of essential materials for
            another about 17,500 latrines to be con-
            structed by householders; and
      (i)   Construction, integrally with the water supply
            schemes to be carried out under (b) above, of
            about 3,500 demonstration latrines, and
            provision of essential materials for another
            about 10,000 latrines to be constructed by
            householders.
2.    In Balochistan:
      (a)   Construction of about six new rural township
            water supply schemes, and, integrally with
            them, about seven new drainage schemes, in
            Hub, Ziarat, Mastung, Kuchlak, Nok Kundi,
            Kharan and Gwadar townships;
      (b)   Rehabilitation of about 70 rural township and
            village water supply schemes in Quetta, Kalat,
            Zhob, Sibi, Nasirabad and Mekran districts;
      (c)   Construction of about 160 tubewells in rural
            townships and villages; and
      (d)   Construction, integrally with the water supply
            schemes to be carried out under (a) above, of
            about 80 demonstration latrines, and provision
            of essential materials for another about
            11,200 latrines to be constructed by
            householders.
3.    In AJK:
      (a)   New construction, rehabilitation and/or
            augmentation of about 1,600 water supply
            schemes, including provision of cattle troughs
            and community bathing, as appropriate, in
            about 500 villages; and
      (b)   Construction, integrally with the water supply
            schemes to be carried out under (a) above, of
            about 3,200 demonstration latrines, and
            provision of essential materials for another
            about 9,700 latrines to be constructed by
            householders.
Part B:     Institution Building
1.    In Sindh:
      (a)   For PHED:
            (i)   Establishment of Training Coordination
                  and Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
                  Units and a Hydrogeological Cell;
           (ii)   Strengthening of capability to design and
Page  12
                  supervise construction of projects, and
                  to bring about village community
                  participation in implementation and
                  operation and maintenance of water supply
                  and drainage schemes, including the
                  establishment for that purpose of a
                  Community Development Unit and provision
                  of training in income-generating
                  activities;
          (iii)         Construction and rehabilitation of
                        office, work-shop and laboratory
                        facilities;
           (iv)   Provision of specialized and operational
                  vehicles, equipment and materials,
                  including drilling equipment, spare parts
                  and mobile workshops;
            (v)   Carrying out of a Management and Finance
                  Study; and
           (vi)   Preparation of future projects and
                  programs and carrying out of other
                  studies as required.
      (b)   For RDD:
            (i)   Establishment of a Water and Sanitation
                  Unit and Training Coordination, Planning,
                  Monitoring and Evaluation, Sanitation
                  Technology, Handpump Development and
                  Maintenance and Hygiene Education Cells;
           (ii)   Strengthening of capability to bring
                  about village community participation in
                  implementation and operation and
                  maintenance of water supply and drainage
                  schemes, including for that purpose the
                  establishment of a Community Development
                  Unit, and to provide training in sanita-
                  tion and hygiene and in income-generating
                  activities;
          (iii)   Construction and rehabilitation of
                  office, workshop and laboratory
                  facilities;
           (iv)   Provision of specialized and operational
                  vehicles, equipment and materials,
                  including drilling equipment, spare parts
                  and mobile workshops;
            (v)   Review and strengthening of accounting
                  and cost recovery practices; and
           (vi)   Preparation of future projects and
                  programs and carrying out of other
                  studies as required.
2.    In Balochistan:
      (a)   For PHED:
            (i)   Strengthening of capability to design and
                  supervise construction of projects, and
                  to bring about village and rural township
                  community participation in implementation
                  and operation and maintenance of water
                  supply and drainage schemes, including
                  the provision for that purpose of
                  training in income-generating activities;
Page  13
           (ii)   Construction and rehabilitation of office
                  and laboratory facilities;
          (iii)   Provision of specialized and operational
                  vehicles, equipment and materials,
                  including drilling and borehole logging
                  equipment, spare parts and mobile
                  workshops;
           (iv)   Review and strengthening of accounting
                  and financial management practices; and
            (v)   Preparation of future projects and
                  programs and carrying out of other
                  studies as required.
      (b)   For LGRDD:
            (i)   Strengthening of capability to impart
                  training to artisans, and in sanitation
                  and hygiene and income-generating
                  activities;
           (ii)   Provision of operational vehicles and
                  latrine materials; and
          (iii)   Review and strengthening of accounting
                  practices.
      (c)   For P&D:
                  Strengthening of capability to prepare
            development plans, including provision of
            assistance in preparing about 5 district
            development plans, for the rural water supply
            and sanitation sector.
3.    In AJK:
      (a)   For LGRDD:
            (i)   Strengthening of capability to design and
                  supervise projects, including
                  establishment of Technical Advisory and
                  Monitoring and Evaluation Units;
           (ii)   Strengthening of capability to impart
                  sanitation and hygiene training to
                  LGRDD's own staff, to village communities
                  and to artisans;
          (iii)   Strengthening of capability to bring
                  about village community participation in
                  implementation and maintenance of water
                  supply and drainage schemes and to
                  provide for that purpose training in
                  income-generating actitivies;
           (iv)   Construction and rehabilitation of office
                  facilities;
            (v)   Provision of operational vehicles,
                  equipment and materials;
           (vi)   Review and strengthening of accounting
                  and cost recovery practices;
          (vii)   Establishment of a water resource
                  program; and
         (viii)   Preparation of future projects and pro-
Page  14
                  grams and carrying out of other studies
                  as required.
      (b)   For DOH through LGRDD:
                  Strengthening of capability to impart
            sanitation and hygiene training, through
            strengthening of the Health Education Unit,
            production of training materials, training of
            trainers, conducting of workshops and field-
            testing of messages.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the
Categories  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in  respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in
respect of Sindh, an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Sindh Special Account; in respect of Balochistan, an
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Balochistan Special
Account; and in respect of AJK, an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the AJK Special Account, all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the  provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to  it that a Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the relevant Authorized Allocation
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be, shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as Sindh, Balochi-
stan or AJK, as the case may be, shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case
                  may be, shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special
                  Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
Page  15
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as
                  the case may be, shall furnish to the
                  Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of Sindh, Balochistan or
                  AJK, as the case maybe, withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as Sindh,
                  Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be,
                  shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the  Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by Sindh, Balochistan or AJK,
as the case maybe, out of a Special Account, Sindh,
Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be, shall, at such
time as the Association shall  reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and  other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for  eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this  Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further  deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined  that all further withdrawals should be made
by Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be,
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the parts of the
Project for which Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case
may be, is responsible less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to such parts of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories for such parts of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the
case may be. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in such Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time  that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was
made for an  expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2  of this Schedule; or (ii) was
Page  16
not justified by the evidence fur- nished to the
Association, Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may
be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
pro-vide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or   (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as
the case may be, has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time  that any amount outstanding in a Special Account
will not be  required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the
case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
      (c)   Sindh, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be,
may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
a Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account, for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
