Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15209
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRATION LOAN
(LOAN No. 3539-PH)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
Average Januarv-June 1995  US$1    P25.5
Average 1994  US$1    P26.9
Average 1993  US$1    P27.1
Average 1992  US$1    P25.5
FI.SCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREI'IA TIOA VAND ACRONYYMS
BOT          Build-Operate-Transfer
BSP          Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Philippines)
GATT         General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOCCs        Government Owned and Controlled Corporations
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
JEXINMl      Export-Import Bank of Japan
OPSF         Oil Price Stabilization Fund
QRs          Quantitative Restrictions on imports



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRA TION LOAN (LOAN NO. 3539-PH)
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................i
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .....................................                1
B. Achievement of Objectives ....................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................6
D. Project Sustainability ............................7
E. Bank Performance .........................7
F. Borrower Performance .........................8
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................8
H. Future Operations ..........................9
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................9
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ............................... 11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ............................... 12
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................... 12
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............... .............. 12
Table 5: Key Inclicators for Project Implementation ................................................. 13
Table 6A: Project Costs ................................................. 15
Table 6B: Project Financing ................................................. 15
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants .................................................     15
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................       ............................... 16
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................       16
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire ................................................. 17
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR ...............          .................................. 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
offcial dudtes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC iNTEGRA TION LOAN (LOANNO. 3539-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Integration Loan
in the Republic of the Philippines, for which Loan No. 3539-PH in the amount of US$200 million
equivalent was approved on November 2, 1992 and became effective January 27, 1993.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1995 compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. The first tranche, released February 9, 1993, was fully disbursed in March
1993; the second and final tranche was released March 29, 1995, and the loan was fully disbursed
by June 7, 1995. Parallel financing in the amount of US$200 million was provided by the Export-
Import Bank of Japan.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Erika Jorgensen, Economist, Country Operations Division,
East Asia and Pacific Region, and was reviewed by Ms. Pamela Cox, Division Chief, Country
Operations Division, Mr. Walter Schwermer, Project Advisor, and Mr. Callisto Madavo, Director,
East Asia and Pacific Department 1. The borrower provided comments on a draft of this
document, and they have been incorporated.
Preparation of this IC(R was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in February
1995 and continued during the completion mission in October 1995. It is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by regularly providing the
project progress/status reports, contributing its views during the missions, working on its own
evaluation of the project's execution (which is not yet finalized), and commenting on the draft
ICR.






ECONOMIC INTEGRATION LOAN
(Loan No. 3539-PH)
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Introduction
1.    The Bank Group's support for the Economic Integration Loan complemented past
Bank policy-based lending in the Philippines. The themes of tariff reform and import
liberalization were included in earlier Bank programs (Structural Adjustment Loan II, Ln.
2266-PH in FY83 and the Economic Recovery Program, Ln. 2787-PH in FY87), and this
loan completed this process.  Similarly, while government financial institutions were
restructured under the Economic Recovery Program, financial restructuring of the BSP
was supported by conditionality added to the second tranche of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ln. :3049-PH) in FY89 and concurrently by this loan. The Reform of
Government Corporations Program (Ln. 2956-PH) in FY88 supported the government
privatization program, and conditionality on privatization was extended further in this
loan. The Debt Management Program (Ln. 3149-PH) in FY90 supported a first phase
debt and debt service reduction agreement with commercial banks, the first such operation
supported by the World Bank. The second and final stage of the commercial bank debt
reduction program was completed in December 1992, funded by the Government and
augmented resources of the IMF, and was considered a key part of the Economic
Integration Program although this loan was not a debt and debt service reduction
operation. This operation extended and deepened the sequence of economic reforms,
most significantly through the full liberalization of the foreign exchange market.
Project Objectives
2.    The loan, in the amount of US$200 million, was to be disbursed in two tranches
(of US$120 million and US$80 million respectively), to finance general imports of goods
to meet part of external financing requirements at a time when foreign resources had been
drained by the needs of a second phase debt and debt service reduction operation and
when an investment recovery was anticipated. Together with parallel financing by the
Export-Import Bank of Japan, these sources were to help fill the unfinanced external gap
in 1993 and help reduce the 1994 gap to a manageable size. The loan's objective was to
support improved macroeconomic management through strengthening the improvement of
Central Bank (Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, BSP) finances and setting appropriate energy
pricing policies, and to improve the environment for private investment through
implementation of the new Foreign Investment Code, trade and transport liberalization,
and the liberalization of t.he foreign currency market.



Implementation Experience and Results
3.     The loan has met and, in many cases, surpassed its original targets. All conditions
of the first and second tranches have been substantially achieved. Macroeconomic stability
has been maintained, and investor confidence has returned. Commercial bank debt and
debt service has been reduced. The Central Bank has been successfully restructured, and
the Oil Price Stabilization Fund, a key factor in a persistent fiscal deficit, has been brought
into surplus, while inflation has also been brought under control. In addition, substantial
progress has been made in promoting competitiveness. Foreign investment has increased
considerably, and over one hundred government corporations have been privatized.
Tariffs have been greatly reduced, and most quantitative restrictions (QRs) on imports
eliminated. Moreover, impressive gains have been made in deregulating the transport
sector and in foreign exchange liberalization.
4.    Because many of the improvements have come about through legislative action
and because the Government is firmly committed to reform, no problems are expected
concerning project sustainability. In fact, the key factors supporting sustainability are the
same ones which made it possible to achieve the initial project objectives: borrower
commitment, institutional capabilities, built-in incentives, and economic growth. There
were slight delays in the areas of privatization and in the implementation of the Energy
Sector Plan. In addition, the removal of QRs on some agricultural products was a
problematic area (due to the Department of Agriculture's openly protectionist stance), but
a continuous dialogue with the Government was maintained; and, as a result, compromises
were elicited.  In addition, lengthy public hearings preceded the eventual Senate
ratification of the Uruguay Final Round of the GATT. These developments resulted in the
need for three closing date extensions (of six months, eight months, and one month).
Aside from the closing date extensions, the agreed financing arrangements and
implementation timetables were largely in line with estimates, and all programs remained
on track.
5.    The Bank's participation in helping to address issues of macroeconomic
management, competitiveness, foreign investment, trade and transport liberalization,
energy pricing policies, and the foreign currency market has had a catalytic impact and is
favorably regarded by the officials of the implementing agencies. The Bank fostered
ownership of the program, beginning with project identification, by recognizing the
initiatives of the implementing agencies and by building support for the project through
active participation by the relevant institutions. The Bank recognized the capacity of the
Government and implementing agencies and their ability to manage the overall program
within the parameters set in the Loan Agreement.
6.    The performance of the Government and implementing agencies was highly
satisfactory. All targets were met and, in many cases, exceeded. Implementation was
largely on track and successful. Compliance was also highly satisfactory (although
delayed in some instances); terms of loan covenants were met, and there were no problems
with audits, procurement, or disbursements (except for delays in the audits of the first and
second tranches).



-.1.-
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learned
7.    Overall, then, the loan's outcome was highly successful. The loan achieved or
exceeded all of its major objectives and has achieved, or is highly likely to achieve,
substantial development results without major shortcomings.
8.    As a result of the  aforementioned  developments  and  tighter overall
macroeconomic management by the Government, macroeconomic outcomes have
strengthened. The Government successfully completed its 1991-93 IMF Stand-By
Program. The Government's stabilization policies since 1992 have established a track
record of sound macroeconomic management which has weathered several shock waves
generated by the Mexican peso. Inflation has been reduced, and the government deficit
has shifted to a surplus as a result of tight cash management, lower domestic interest rates,
and revenues from the privatization of government corporations. Displaying similar
progress, the consolidated public sector deficit for 1994 fell below 1 percent of GDP, and
retuming flight capital and other foreign exchange inflows have nurtured reserve levels. A
particularly encouraging sign in this recovery has been the robust expansion of direct
foreign investment, which has increased six fold between 1991 and 1994 by government
estimates.
9.    While the project was completed satisfactorily, there are lessons to be learned
about the correct balance between encouraging the government to move more quickly on
economic reforms than they otherwise would have and yet ensuring that the reform
program is owned by the client, with the speed of implementation responsive to local
political developments.  In terms of project design, there was a trade off between
designing narrow conditions of action which are intended to yield very specific results but
leave little room for flexibility, and outlining broader conditions which would allow greater
flexibility in adapting to unforeseen changes in the environment. Secondly, the loan was
designed with a very short life in order to encourage the Government to accelerate action
in certain areas. These two issues came to light most clearly with regard to the agreed
conditions on trade liberalization, specifically, the removal of QRs from import items.
Second tranche release was delayed while negotiations were conducted on how to secure
progress on import liberalization; but because of the short time frame allowed, extensions
of the closing date became necessary; and because of the specificity of the conditions, the
Bank was unable to compromise despite our support overall of the speed and content of
the Government's ongoing program of structural reforms. The Bank and Government
maintained a continuous dialogue, and positive actions were eventually achieved.
However, more flexibility in supervision would have allowed for a more sophisticated
dialogue with the Government on policy issues, rather than inflexible enforcement of
tranche conditions.
10.   Future operations related to this loan are not planned. No further adjustment loans
are foreseen for the Philippines, because balance of payments support is no longer needed.
The country is one year into an Extended Fund Facility, considered an exit program, with
the IMF.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRA TION LOAN (LOAN NO. 3539-PH)
Part 1. Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The Economic Integration Loan (Ln. 3539-PH) was approved in December 1992 in the
amount of US$200 million, structured as two tranches of US$120 miNlion and US$80 million,
respectively. The loan was financed in parallel in the amount of US$200 million by the Export-
Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM). The loan's objective was to support improved macroeconomic
management through strengthening of Central Bank (Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, BSP) finances
and setting appropriate energy pricing policies, and to improve the environment for private
investment through implementation of the new Foreign Investment Code, trade and transport
liberalization, and the liberalization of the foreign currency market. By design, the program of
action was heavily weighted towards the first tranche. A second tranche was added at the request
of the Loan Committee to ensure follow through in the main policy areas.
2.    Despite the structural reforms initiated in the 1980s and the progress in macroeconomic
stabilization, the economy had been unable to attain an efficient sustainable growth path as of
1992.  Three principal factors constrained progress.  First, the government record on
implementation was mixed. Its ability to sustain a stable macroeconomic environment was
complicated by political pressures and by the presence of high external debt. Second, economic
performance had been constrained by the high degree of uncertainty regarding the future course
of policies. Third, trade and investment reforms were more tentative than necessary. As a result,
the economy remained partially protected, unable to benefit fully from integration with the rest of
the world.
3.    The Government sought to address these constraints through the implementation of a
strong macroeconomic and structural reform program, supported by a comprehensive reduction
of commercial bank external debt and debt service. There were three broad components in the
Economic Integration Program. The first component focused on institutional capabilities to
provide improved tools for economic management, most importantly, to improve the condition of
Central Bank finances. Second, remaining distortions in the real sector of the economy needed to
be removed, including limits on foreign equity ownership, private participation in major
infrastructure projects through Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) and related schemes, and
quantitative restrictions (QRs) on a modest number of key imports. The third component
involved the liberalization of the foreign exchange market.
4.    The Economic Integration Loan built on past policy reforms, which had begun in 1980,
and was based on:  actions already undertaken by the Government, including several key



-2-
legislative initiatives, where the Bank had been actively encouraging the Government through its
policy dialogue; the conclusion of the agreement between the Government and its commercial
bank creditors, resolving medium- and long-term commercial bank debt; and additional actions by
the Government to deepen the reform effort.
5.    The first tranche supported foreign investment liberalization, tariff reform, and foreign
exchange liberalization, and first steps to eliminate the Oil Price Stabilization Fund (OPSF) deficit
and to deregulate the transport sector. A new law on foreign investment opened most sectors to
foreign ownership. A new tariff code was adopted, lowering the average tariff rate from 20
percent in 1991 to below 13 percent in 1995, and reducing tariff dispersion. The foreign
exchange system was deregulated, allowing full retention by exporters of foreign exchange
receipts and free use of foreign exchange funds purchased in the market. As a result, the current
account was fully liberalized, and only minor restrictions on the capital account still remain.
6.    The second tranche supported  import liberalization, privatization, and  financial
restructuring of the Central Bank, and further policy steps to eliminate OPSF deficits and to
deregulate transport. All areas except one were more or less on track from the start. The
problematic area was the removal of QRs on some agricultural products. A continuous dialogue
with the Government was maintained, and some small compromises were elicited despite the
Department of Agriculture's openly protectionist stance. Also, some slight delays arose in the
areas of privatization and in the implementation of the Energy Sector Plan. As the original closing
date of December 31, 1993 approached, only a year after Board approval, the Government
requested and was a granted a first extension of the closing date of six months, a period short
enough to keep up the pressure for action. By June 1994, the Department of Agriculture had
adopted a new stance of ratifying the Uruguay Final Round of the GATT. Since the GATT
agreement would require the Philippines to move far beyond the requirements of this loan on
trade liberalization, the Bank accepted this change in stance as substantive progress towards the
goal of removal of all remaining QRs. A second extension of eight months was granted, this time
coordinated with the new I!MF Extended Fund Facility's schedule for structural measures. Then,
when final required actions for second tranche release did not occur until mid-February 1995, an
extension of one month, until March 31, 1995, was granted to allow time for reviewing
compliance and preparing for tranche release.
7.    This loan complemented past Bank policy-based lending in the Philippines. The themes of
tariff reform and import liberalization were included in earlier Bank programs (Structural
Adjustment Loan II, Ln. 2266-PH in FY83 and the Economic Recovery Program, Ln. 2787-PH in
FY87), and this loan completed this process. Similarly, while government financial institutions
were restructured under the Economic Recovery Program, financial restructuring of the BSP was
supported by conditionality added to the second tranche of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Ln. 3049-PH) in FY89 and concurrently by this loan. The Reform of Govemment Corporatiors
Program (Ln. 2956-PH) in FY88 supported the government privatization program, and
conditionality on privatization was extended further in this loan. The Debt Management Program
(Ln. 3149-PH) in FY90 supported a first phase debt and debt service reduction agreement with
commercial banks, the first such operation supported by the World Bank. The second and final
stage of the commercial bank debt reduction program was completed in December 1992, funded
by the Government and augmented resources of the IMF, and was considered a key part of the



-3-
Economic Integration Program although this loan was not a debt and debt service reduction
operation. This operation extended and deepened the sequence of economic reforms, most
significantly through the full liberalization of the foreign exchange market.
8.    The loan was also in line with the Bank's economic and sector work in the country. The
Bank has continuously engaged in studies which contribute to the macroeconomic dialogue, the
definition of development issues and the future lending strategy in key sectors. At the time of
preparation, recently completed reports on natural resource management and the environment,
energy, financial, and education sectors and the almost completed basic economic report, "An
Opening for Sustained Growth," provided the analytical basis for the program. Related studies
since include a Capital Market Study (1992); a brief Macroeconomic Update in 1994; and a
Private Sector Assessment in 1994.
9.    The Government program continues to receive financial support from the IMF in the form
of an Extended Fund Facility agreed with the IMF in June 1994. There has been extensive
cooperation between the Bank and the IMF in the development of this policy program, as there
was for past programs. Various Fund agreements have supported policy reforms initiated by the
Bank, including privatization and energy pricing. Likewise, the Bank and the Fund have in turn
taken the lead in some policy areas, including tax reform and import liberalization.
B. Achievement of Objectives
10.   The loan has met, and in many cases surpassed, its original targets. All conditions of the
first and second tranches have been substantially achieved. Macroeconomic stability has been
maintained, and investor confidence has returned. Commercial bank debt and debt service has
been reduced. The Central Bank has been successfully restructured, and the OPSF has been
brought into surplus, while inflation has also been brought under control. In addition, substantial
progress has been made in promoting competitiveness.  Foreign investment has increased
considerably, and over one hundred Government Owned and Controlled Corporations (GOCCs)
have been privatized. Tariffs have been greatly reduced, and most QRs eliminated. Moreover,
impressive gains have been made in deregulating the transport sector and in foreign exchange
liberalization. In privatization, foreign investment liberalization, tariff reform, and the removal of
QRs, targets have been exceeded.
(i) Improved Macroeconomic Management.
11.   The Government (with the support of the IMF) has maintained macroeconomic stability.
Key measures improving the Government's ability to manage the economy have been the financial
restructuring of the BSP and greater control over balances in the OPSF, as well as the reduction
of external debt servicing. In the policy areas related to the macroeconomic framework ---foreign
investment liberalization, foreign exchange deregulation, simplification of procedures for foreign
investors, and tariff reform under Executive Order 470--performance has exceeded attainments
laid out by the Economic Integration Program. In addition, the Philippine authorities and the IMF
agreed to a three-year Extended Fund Facility in June 1994. The program is based on a
comprehensive array of structural measures, which deepen the reforms supported by this loan.
The program provides close monitoring of macroeconomic management; the fiscal deficit and
inflation, in particular, have performed better than programmed since June 1994.



-4-
12.    Central Bank Restructuring. A comprehensive solution to the Central Bank's financial
condition was put into effect through its restructuring into a new financially sound and
independent Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and a totally separate entity, the Central Bank
Board of Liquidators, whose losses are serviced directly by the National Government. The
Central Bank has adopted policy resolutions enabling the Central Bank to achieve and maintain a
positive level of net foreign assets. The BSP achieved a positive level of net foreign assets in
1993 and has maintained it since then; as of July 1995, its net foreign asset position was US$4.5
billion. In addition, the Central Monetary Authority Law provided for an initial paid-in capital of
PIO billion for the BSP; and the National Government paid PIO billion to the BSP in July 1993.
As a result of these measures, some of which were also supported by the Bank's Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3049-PH) , the BSP can function as an independent monetary authority.
13.    Oil Price Stabilization Fund Deficit. As part of the Government's Energy Sector Plan, oil
pricing has begun to be depoliticized through legislation, with the accumulated gains and losses of
ef 2
the OPSF to be bounded to levels which will not have substantial macroeconomic effects.
Preceding the passage of the required legislation, the Government brought the OPSF into surplus
in 1991, a measure supported by the loan's first tranche. It has remained in surplus for the years
since, except for 1993.
14.   Reduction of Commercial Bank External Debt and Debt Service.   Following the
completion of a broad debt restructuring agreement with its creditor banks in 1992, the country
regained international creditworthiness. The Brady-type agreement restructured US$4.5 billion of
Philippine medium and long-term commercial bank debt. As a result, total debt service as a share
of exports fell to 18 percent for 1994. Further, the commercial bank debt agreement, along with
macroeconomic stability and rising foreign exchange reserves, improved creditworthiness
sufficiently to allow the Government and some large Philippine companies to re-enter
international capital markets in 1993. Lastly, the Government has now chosen to make its
bilateral debt payments according to the original schedule, declining the Paris Club's 1994 offer of
rescheduling; it is the first country to take such action.
(ii) Promotion of Competitiveness.
15.   Foreign Investment. A new Foreign Investment Act (Republic Act 7042 of 1991) allowed
for higher proportions of foreign equity ownership in most companies and also expanded the
sectors where foreign investment can freely flow. As part of this expansion, the Government set
The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, approved in May 1989 in the amount of US$300 million, aimed to
strengthen the supervision and regulatory framework for conimercial banks, improve institutional arrangements of
depositor protection, reduce intermediation costs in the banking system, and improve the institutional framework
for mobilization and delivery of long term credit. In December 1992, an additional covenant was added for second
tranche release, requiring the financial restructuring of the BSP. The tranche was released in December 1993.
2
During discussion of the draft version of this report, the Department of Finance brought to the Bank's attention
that as part of its ongoing Energy Sector Plan, in September 1995, the Government lifted restrictions on the
importation of petroleum products and on the setting up of gas stations; actions planned for 1996 include the
adoption of an automatic oil pricing mechanism and the restructuring of oil taxes; and the abolition of the OPSF
and the full deregulation of the oil industry is scheduled for early 1997.



-5-
up a program to encourage private participation in major infrastructure projects through BOT and
related schemes, which have been highly successful in the rapid expansion of power generation.
At the same time, the Government took various steps to improve the business environment for
foreign investors: actions were taken to streamline procedures for foreign investors with respect
to visas and work permits. In addition, the Government has undertaken a bold move to liberalize
further by allowing ten foreign banks to enter the domestic financial market, which had been
protected from foreign investment since the 1940s.
16.   I'rivatization. The Government has now moved well beyond the privatization targets set
out in the Economic Integration Program. One hundred one government owned and controlled
corporations (GOCCs), constituting over 75 percent of the 1985 asset value of the 122 GOCCs
originally designated for privatization, have been offered for sale or actually sold; and additional
GOCCs, not on the original list, have also been privatized. From 1991 through July 1995, P51.8
billion accrued to the National Government from privatization. These substantial contributions to
the treasury have greatly assisted in reducing the fiscal deficit.
1 7    liade Liberalization. A new tariff code (Executive Order 470 of 1991), representing
major adjustments in tariffs, was put in place to encourage export oriented growth by lowering
trade protection and simplifying customs administration.  Supported by the first tranche,
Executive Order 470 reduced tariff dispersion and the number of tariff bands, and lowered overall
protection in stages. The average import-weighted tariff, which was 43 percent in 1980, was
reduced to below 13 percent by July 1995. The Government has not only kept to its schedule of
tariff reductions, it has accelerated the lowering of rates for many items. In addition, a bill backed
by the Department of Finance and the Bureau of Customs which shifts import valuation from the
Philippines' Home Consumption Value method to a standard international method of fair market
valuation was submitted to the House and Senate, where it is under consideration. Negotiations
for the Asian Free Trade Area involve further duty reductions; and the Philippines has unilaterally
declared a goal of a uniform five percent duty rate by the year 2004. The Senate also ratified the
Uruguay Round Final Act of the GATT. Legislation to implement the Uruguay Round, removing
QRs from all agricultural items except rice, was submitted to the Congress in the first half of
1995, and in November 1995, the Government informed the World Trade Organization that the
invocation of Article XVIII:B of the GATT will cease within two years. The lifting of QRs on
coal and petroleum products is scheduled to coordinate with the deregulation of the energy
sector, which is underway and is to be completed by end 1997.
1 8    icransporl Deregulation. The Government has implemented substantial improvements in
policies for the transport sector by promoting competition on major routes and liberalizing rate
setting. In 1992 and 1993, the Government used administrative powers to remove barriers to
entry and exit from the land transport industry and to liberalize market-based rate and fare setting,
actions supported by the loan's first tranche. Administrative means were also used to deregulate
The Department of Finance added that, apart from the important benefits in terms of revenue, the privatization
program has proven to be a vital tool in revitalizing the Philippine economy. by expanding the scope of private
economic activity, improving the investment climate, broadening the ownership base. developing capital markets,
and gencrating employment.



-6-
inter-island shipping, also supported under the first tranche. Significant improvements in the
quality of service and in fleet modernization have already been observed in the maritime and land
transport sectors. The administrative liberalization of the transport sector has been incorporated
into a Transport Services Act, supported by the second tranche.
(iii) Foreign Exchange Deregulation.
19.   Until the notable liberalization of foreign exchange trading during 1991-92, supported by
the loan's first tranche, largely unenforceable regulations had been restricting trade and use of
foreign exchange. The foreign exchange liberalization program has been highly successful in
achieving its objectives of providing a market-based exchange rate and integrating domestic and
international capital markets. The current account has been fully liberalized, and only minor
restrictions on the capital account remain.
20.   Social Objectives. The agreed structural reforms have advanced the Government's broad
efforts to achieve a more competitive economy which improves prospects for growth. Through
higher overall growth rates of income and a more liberal policy environment that encourages
competition and efficiency, this loan works to reinforce poverty alleviation and ameliorate
regional income disparities. As the rate of economic growth has accelerated from 0 percent GDP
expansion in 1991 to 4.3 percent in 1994 in a reformed economy, poverty has begun to shrink.
The headcount of the poor has fallen from 39 percent of families living below the official poverty
line in 1991 to 36 percent in 1994.
21.   Private Sector Development Objectives. As previously noted, the loan substantially
achieved its private sector development objectives. As part of the 1991 Foreign Investment Act,
the Government set up a program to encourage private participation in major infrastructure
projects through Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) and related schemes, which have been uniquely
successful in the rapid expansion of power generation and have placed the Philippines in the
forefront of such efforts worldwide. Privatization has also been an area of resounding success for
the Government, especially in the last few years as the program has gained momentum (See para.
17.).  The Bank provided support, starting in 1988, through the Reform for Government
Corporations Program (Ln. 2969-PH) and then through this loan. Moreover, macroeconomic
stability has spurred renewed interest in the Philippines, increasing flows of foreign investment for
private sector development initiatives across a variety of sub-sectors.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.   Since the loan successfully achieved all of its objectives, there were no major factors
affecting the loan. As noted earlier, the removal of QRs on some agricultural products was a
problematic area, but was subsequently resolved by the Government's (and especially the
Department of Agriculture's) acceptance of the Uruguay Final Round. Delays also arose in
privatization of GOCCs and in the implementation of the Energy Sector Plan. These
developments resulted in the need for a closing date extension. In addition, lengthy public
hearinigs preceded the eventual Senate ratification of the Uruguay Final Round.
23.   The risks laid out in the President's Report have generally not been realized. The
Government adhered to the reform program despite only a modest recovery of growth in 1993,
and private sector confidence began to build. The establishment of a deregulated foreign



-7-
exchange market was rapid, and the Central Bank has continued to intervene where necessary to
avoid excessive volatility, particularly to counter the repeated shock waves in currency markets
generated by the Mexico crisis of December 1994. However, as the President's Report warned,
large capital inflows did push the exchange rate higher than desirable for robust export growth, as
a result of high domestic real interest rates used to keep inflation under control. Continued fiscal
strengthening is needed for medium term stability.
D.    Project Sustainability
24.   No problems with project sustainability are expected. The Government's decisive actions
in the areas of privatization, and foreign exchange, trade and foreign investment liberalization are
now well established. There remains work to be done in the areas of transport deregulation and in
energy pricing, but the Government is firmly committed to reform, and, therefore, no problems
are anticipated. The economy has return to growth over the last two years, with GDP expanding
by 4.3 percent in 1994 and a projected 4.9 percent in 1995. Export growth in dollar terms has
tripled, from less than 9 percent in 1991 to over 26 percent in 1994; and foreign direct investment
has increased six-fold between 1991 and 1994 according to government estimates.
E.    Bank Performance
25.   Project identification was highly satisfactory, the loan complemented past Bank policy-
based lending in the Philippines. The project was also in line with the Bank's country assistance
strategy which focused on, among others, maintaining a prudent macroeconomic framework
(including trade liberalization, foreign exchange deregulation, and promotion of foreign
investment) and improving the business environment for private enterprise.  In addition, it
supplements Bank economic and sector work by supporting a number of specific macroeconomic
and sectoral reforms recommended, e.g., continued trade liberalization and deregulation of the
energy sector. Preparation of the project was highly satisfactory and was conducted in close
collaboration with the Government and implementing agencies. ProjecL appraisal was also highly
satisfactory. The policies were already well in train, and the Government's commitment to them
was clear.  The operation required monitoring of the consistency of the macroeconomic
framework and the implementation of specific actions, which was well within the capacity of the
Government and implementing agencies. The monitoring of macroeconomic performance, in
particular, was carried out in close coordination with the IMF.
26.   Suipervision performance was also highly satisfactory. During supervision, the project's
performance and implementation progress were consistently rated satisfactory, and all the loan
covenants were complied with (except the audit of the second tranche, due December 3 1, 1995,
and not yet received). There were no significant implementation problems, although there were
slight delays in the areas of privatization, implementation of the Energy Sector Plan and removal
of quantitative restrictions from agricultural products. These delays resulted in two closing date
extensions, however, the problems were identified, assessed, and corrected.  The quality of
supervision was professional, objective, and had the respect of the implementing agencies. It was
based on a solid understanding of the borrower's institutional capabilities and the Bank's policies
and procedures. In addition, there was a great deal of cooperation and communication between
the Bank, IMIF, JEXIM, Department of Finance, and government line agencies.



-8 -
F.    Borrower Performance
27.   The performance of the Government and implementing agencies was highly satisfactory.
The adjustment program was coordinated by the International Finance Section of the Department
of Finance. As noted earlier, all targets were met, and in many cases, exceeded. Implementation
was largely on track and successful. Compliance was also highly satisfactory; terms of loan
covenants were met, although later than anticipated in some instances. There was a slight delay in
the audit of the first tranche, because some technical assistance was underway with the Philippine
Government's Commission on Audit at the time, and the audit of the second tranche, not yet
overdue, has not been received; but otherwise there were no problems wvith audits, procurement,
45
or disbursements.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
28.   Overall, the loan's outcome was highly successful. The loan achieved or exceeded all of
its major objectives and has achieved, or is highly likely to achieve, substantial development
results, without major shortcomings.
29.   As a result of the above developments and tighter overall macroeconomic management by
the Government, macroeconomic outcomes have strengthened. The Government successfully
completed its 1991-93 IMF Stand-By Program. While tight fiscal and monetary policies and
severe power shortages slowed growth to about 0.5 percent per annum during 1991-1992, GDP
growth recovered to 2.1 percent in 1993 and then accelerated to 4.3 percent in 1994, led by
private investment and export growth of over 26 percent (in dollar terms).  A particularly
encouraging sign in this recovery has been the robust expansion of net foreign investment, from
around US$750 million in 1992 to US$1.4 billion in 1994. The Government's stabilization
policies since 1992 has established a growing track record of sound macroeconomic management.
Inflation has been reduced from  19 percent in 1991, to 7 percent in 1994.  The national
government deficit has also been steadily reduced from 3.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to a surplus
of 0.8 percent in 1994 (and the consolidated public sector deficit fell below I percent of GDP), as
a result of tight cash management, lower domestic interest rates, and US$1 billion in revenue from
the privatization of government corporations. Displaying similar improvement, the consolidated
public sector deficit for 1994 fell below I percent of GDP, and returning flight capital and other
foreign exchange inflows have nurtured reserve levels.
4
Thc audit report for the second tranche is due December 31, 1995. The Bank expects to receive it in Januarv
1996.
5
The Department of Finance suggested that the Bank reconsider its audit requirements for adjustment loans.
Audit reports for loans disbursed against general imports, when the amount disbursed is relatively small compared
with the flow of imports overall, do not improve implementation and constitute unnecessary bureaucratic
procedures. from the perspective of the Government.



-9-
H. Future Operations
30.    Future operations related to this loan are not planned. No further adjustment loans are
foreseen for the Philippines, because balance of payments support is no longer needed. The
country is one year into an Extended Fund Facility, considered an exit program, with the lMF.
I. Key Lessons Learned
31.    While the project was completed satisfactorily, there are lessons to be learned about the
correct balance between encour aging the government to move more quickly on economic reforms
than they otherwise would have and yet ensuring that the reform program is owned by the client,
with the speed of implementation responsive to local political developments. In terms of project
design, there was a trade off between designing narrow conditions of action which are intended to
yield very specific results but leave little room for flexibility, and outlining broader conditions
which would allow greater flexibility in adapting to unforeseen changes in the environment.
Secondly, the loan was designed with a very short life in order to encourage the Government to
accelerate action in certain areas. These two issues came to light most clearly with regard to the
agreed conditions on trade liberalization, specifically, the removal of QRs from import items.
Second tranche release was delayed while negotiations were conducted on how to secure
progress on import liberalization; but because of the short time frame allowed, extensions of the
closing date became necessary; and because of the specificity of the conditions, the Bank was
unable to compromise despite our support overall of the speed and content of the Government's
ongoing program of structural reforms. The Bank and Government maintained a continuous
dialogue, and positive actions were eventually achieved. However, more flexibility in supervision
would have allowed for a more sophisticated dialogue with the Government on policy issues,
67
rather than inflexible enforcement of tranche conditions.
6
The Department of Finance noted that this program would have been more efficient if it had been a single
tranche. The substantial actions of the program were all first tranche conditions, while second tranche conditions
merely supported progress on reforms already made. The delays on a small number of the multiple and detailed
second tranche conditions created the incorrect perception that the program was not going as well as planned,
added the Department of Finance during discussions of the draft of this report.
7
The Department of Finance suggested that the Bank look into the creation of greater flexibility on disbursement.
At the point when the Philippines had met all conditions necessary for release of the second tranche, the
Government would have preferred more control over the timing of the capital inflows, given problems with a
strengthening exchange rate and some uneasiness in the market in the wake of the Mexico crisis. However, the
imminence of the closing date left the Government with no room to maneuver. Further, the Department of Finance
suggested that the Bank reconsider its requirement that the commitment fee be charged in full in such a situation.



-10-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRA TION LOAN (LOAN NO. 3539-PH)
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6A: Project Costs
Table 6B: Project Financing
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8: Bank Resources, Staff Inputs
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions



-11-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Oblectives     Substantial        Partial        Neghieible      Not Applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies                   M
Financial objectives             cm                 3             C                 °
Institutional development        cm               =               =                  3
Physical objectives              =                 =                               I 
Poverty reduction                                  D
Gender issues                     =   =
Other social objectives            3              M               C                c
Environmental objectives                                          =                EM
Public sector management
Private sector development
Human resource development                        C                M               E
B.   Proiect Sustainability          Likelv                           Unlikelv        Uncertain
( )                                 !            ( )
HinhOv
C.   Bank Performance                Satisfactory                     Satisfactorv      Deficient
()                               ()              ()
Identification                                                     °
Preparation assistance            =                               C3
Appraisal                  
Supervision                                                        °
Hinhlv
D.   Borrower Performance            Satisfactory                     SatisfactorN      Deficient
()                               ()              ()
Preparation                                                                         °
Implementation                   =|                                M:
Covenant compliance
High]v
E.   Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactorv                     Satisfactory      Deficient
()                               C)              ()
In                               On               O



-12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
W .S-, ''"'"E'"'"'m'''..........                                   .. .... ... ... ......... 4 
............ .; . ...... . . .i ... .i,,,
. . ..... .........    .O...f..
Preceding operations
Structural Adjustment Loan II    Reform of investment incentives. Reduction of sales  1983     Closed
(Loan No. 2266-PH)             and excise taxes on imports. Improvement of energy
policy to spur domestic energy supply.
Agriculture Sector Inputs Loan   Removal of price and other controls on agricultural  1985     Closed
(Loan No. 2469-PH)             outputs and inputs. Break up of sugar and coconut
monopolies.
Economic Recovery Program        Reform of public financial institutions, trade policy.  1987  Closed
(Loan No. 2787-PH)             public investment, and tax system.
Reform of Government             Restructuring of controls on public corporations.  1988       Closed
Corporations                   Implementation of program of privatization and
(Loan No. 2956-PH)             closure for over 200 corporations.
Financial Sector Adjustment Loaw.   Strengthening of supervision and regulation of  1989       Closed
(Loan No. 3049-PH)             commercial banks. Reduction in intermediation
costs. Improvement of depositor protection.
Financial restructuring of Central Bank.
Debt Management Loan             Support of buyback of US$1.33 billion of external  1990       Closed
(Loan No. 3149-PH)             debt. Improvement of debt management system.
Environment & Natural Resources   Improvement of natural resource management.      1991      Disbursing
(Loan No. 3360-PH)             Strengthening of protection of biological diversity.
Following operations
Financial Market Strengthening   Improvement of regulation and supervision of                  Under
financial system. Reform of pensions.                      preparation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                 February 1992              February 1992
Preparation                    March 1992                 March 1992
Appraisal                      June 1992                  June 1992
Negotiations                   October 1992               October 1992
Letter of development policy   October 1992               October 1992
Board presentation             November 1992              December 1992
Signing                        November 1992              December 1992
Effectiveness                  December 1992               January 1993
First tranche release          December 1992               February 1993
Second tranche release         December 1993              March 1995
Loan closing                   December 31, 1993          March 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Appraisal estimnate           120.0            200.0              200.0
Actual                        120.0            120.0              200.0
Actual as % of estimate       100              60                 100
Date of final disbursement    June 7, 1995



-13-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implemei tation - Conditions for Release of Tranches a/
:::::: : :obj::                        -     -            -ACti  s ....re...s  trenche  .b.. .                                     a -:---  - o .he:
A. Investment Liberalization
a. Liberalized environment for foreign   Passage of new law on foreign investment, detailing short negative list  Satisfactory application of such rules
investment, allowing up to 100 percent   where equity restrictions remain during a three year transition period.  and regulations.
foreign ownership in most sectors.       Issuance of implementing rules and regulations of the law.
b. Simplify procedures for foreign       Executive actions, including inter-agency memoranda of agreement and    Satisfactory implementation of the
investors to obtain work permits.        executive orders, to simplify procedures for Alien Employment Permits  Executive Order and Memorandum of
and Special Investors Resident Visas.                                 Agreement.
c. Promote private financing of          Passage of law authorizing private sector participation in infrastructure.
infrastructure, particularly in energy and
telecommunications.
d. Reduce government participation in    Offer 72 GOCCs for sale, representing 68 percent of assets to be      Completion of all actions necessary
economy by divestment of several large   privatized. Passage of legislation extending the life of the Asset    towards the transfer to private entities
government corporations.                 Privatization Trust.                                                  of at least 95 GOCCs representing 75
percent of assets to be privatized.
B. Trade Liberalization
a. Reduce tariff protection, and reduce  Establish new Tariff Code with four tariff bands, a top rate of 30 percent,   Satisfactory application of tariff code.
administrative complexity by decreasing:    which reduces average tariffs to 14 percent.
the average tariff level; the top tariff rate;
dispersion of tariff rates; and the number    Maximum additional duties of 100 percent of statutory rates on newly
of tariff bands.                         liberalized import items with schedule of phase-out by July 1996.
Removal of special import levy.
b. Eliminate quantitative restrictions   Removal of QRs on 484 agreed items, including consumer electronics,    Complete elimination of QRs on
(QRs) on key imports and replace them    commercial vehicles, and related spare parts.                         imports with the exception of specified
with appropriate tariffs.                                                                                       agreed upon items.
Time-bound plan of action to liberalize corn, coal and petroleum related
items.
a/ See President's Report, Annex III, for full details



-14-
Table 5 (continued): Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Conditions for Release of Tranches a/
-:Polkytti:00  ;A;00    :obied70ives0               Actiens bet0r first0 t:nh AT:ions Defor $:icoud Tra:n che0:3:0 f;;::;:       sf  ce
c. Improve customs efficiency          Conclusion and satisfactory implementation of a comprehensive import    Submission to Congress of legislation
surveillance scheme.                                              to move to Fair Market Value as basis
for tariff computation.
d. Provide e,xporters with rebates on taxes   Completion of the first phase of standardization of the Formula of  Completion of study improving tax
and duties                             Manufacture. Establish a one-stop-shop to simplify availment of credits   credits and duty drawbacks for indirect
on taxes and duties.                                              exporters.
e. Achieve market-oriented and         Introduction of automatic electricity tariff mechanism.            Preparation of agreed timebound
depoliticized energy pricing system.                                                                      Energy Sector Plan and
Elimination of deficit in Oil Price Stabilization Fund.           impepmmentatiton of energy price related
C. Transport Liberalization
a. Eliminate economic barriers to entry    Issue Department of Transportation and Communication Order     Submission to Congress of legislation
into and exit from land and maritime   instructing its regulatory boards -- Land Transportation Franchising and   reforming laws on land and maritime
transport.                             Regulatory Board and Maritime Industry Authority -- to draft      transport.
implementing rules to remove administrative barriers to entry and exit
b. Price deregulation.                 and to market based rate and fare setting.
c. Elimination of all operator subsidies,
except where necsiary for sial reasons.on
a/ See President's Report, Annex III, for full details



-15-
Table 6A: Project Costs
. . ,      ,       :     '     ,     '~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........,,,
200.00                           200.00
Table 6B: Project Financing
-, .- ,., ., : : - ~~~~~~~~~~~. .   . ... . . . . . ......-:-:-i..:.-::.-.:   . -.  - - :   -  -
IBRD                         200.00                200.00
Parallel fin6 ncing
JEXIM                     200.00                200.00
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
(Republic of the Philippines)
(Economic Integration Loan)
f S 00 02typ                             covEnant
Loan           3.01(a)           5, 10, 12      C      Tranche release        Fulfilled.
conditions.
Audit of
Loan           3.01(b);             1, 9        CP    Audit of accounts;      second
3.03 (a), (b), (c)                     submit progress report;  tranche due
SOE records            December 31,
1995.
Loan           3.02                  3          C      Procurement guidelines.  Fulfilled.
Key:
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audit                                  8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance                            9 = Monitoring, review, reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of funds                    10 = Other project implementation
4 = Counterpart funding                              11 = Resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project                12 = Policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                          13= Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
Status:
C  = covenant complied with           CP   complied with partially
CD = complied with after delay        NC = not complied with



-16-
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stag. ~ ~ .. p...
....... ....... .... .    . .   S
Through appraisal                       6.4            23.0
Appraisal-Board                         17.5           64.4
Board-effectiveness                     0.0             0.0
Supervision                            38.3           134.7
Completion                              9.3            21.8
TOTAL                                   71.5          243.9
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
e ...........                   .i  !                                         o                 .. ............
Through         2/92, 6/92      4       28   Macroeconomics, Trade      N/A.        N/A.         N/A.
appraisal                                     Policy, Transport Policy
Appraisal
through Board                                                           N/A.        N/A.         N/A.
approval
Boardl approval
through                         0       0                               N/A.        N/A.         N/A.
effectiveness
2/93; 3/93;
Supervision     6/93; 10/93;    4       72   Macroeconomics; Trade      S/l         HS/I    Trade
3/94; 6/94;                   Policy; Energy Policy;                         liberalization;
9/94; 1/95;                   Transport Policy                               energy
3/95                                                                         pricing.
Completion      10/95           ]        5    Macroeconomics; Trade     N/A.        N/A.         N/A.
Policy
Peformnance Ratings: HS = highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory; I =no significant problems; 2 =moderate
problems.



-17-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRA TION LOAN (LOAN NO. 3539-PH)
Appendix A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
I. Introduction
1.    Discussion of the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Economic
Integration Loan (Loan 3539-PH) was conducted during October 1995 by Erika Jorgensen of the
World Bank with the Department of Finance. Because the supervision preceding second tranche
release in March 1995 had been comprehensive, the discussions of the draft ICR raised no areas of
disagreement. The Department of Finance (DOF) did provide the following comments and insights
on the program.
HI. Mission Findings
A. Achievements Related to Improved Macroeconomic Management
2.    The DOF suggested that the ICR emphasize that a key component to the improved ability to
manage the economy has been the financial restructuring of the Central Bank. A comprehensive
solution was put into effect by the Government through the creation of a new financially sound and
independent Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and a separate entity, the Central Bank Board of
Liquidators, the losses of which are serviced directly by the National Government. Further, the BSP
has adopted policy resolutions committing it to maintaining a positive level of net foreign assets
(which was achieved in 1993).
3.    Another important policy reform, noted the DOF, has been control of the balance in the Oil
Price Stabilization Fund (OPSF) so that it will not have macroeconomic effects. As part of its
ongoing Energy Sector Plan, in September 1995, the Government lifted restrictions on the
importation of petroleum products and on the setting up of gas stations. Actions planned for 1996
include the adoption of an automatic oil pricing mechanism and the restructuring of oil taxes. The
abolition of the OPSF and the full deregulation of the oil industry is scheduled for early 1997.
4.    The DOF pointed out that a clear indication of the success of macroeconomic management
has been the progress on foreign debt management. An "exit" rescheduling agreement with the Paris
Club was signed in July 1994, with the Agreed Minute covering about US$499 million of official
debt maturing between August 1, 1994 and December 31, 1995. In January 1995, in response to the
Government's request, the Paris Club granted the Philippines accelerated graduation as a
rescheduling country.



-18-
B. Achievements Related to Promotion of Competitiveness
5.    The Government emphasized that while privatization was slow to get going, momentum did
build after the first few years. Additional GOCCs, not on the original list of 122 slated for
privatization or closure, have been sold. Apart from the important benefits in terms of revenue, the
DOF explained that the privatization program has proven to be a vital tool in revitalizing the
Philippine economy, by expanding the scope of private economic activity, improving the investment
climate, broadening the ownership base, developing capital markets, and generating employment.
6.    The DOF also added that tariff reform is ongoing. The Government has not only kept to its
schedule of tariff reductions, it has accelerated the lowering of rates for many items. Negotiations
for the ASEAN Free Trade Area involve further reductions, and in addition, the Philippines has
unilaterally declared a goal of a uniform five percent duty rate by the year 2004. Under the
Government's new commitments, average tariff rates will decline from 12.8 percent in 1995 to 7.4
percent by the year 2000 and to a uniform rate of 5 percent by 2004.
7.    Foreign exchange deregulation has been highly successful in providing a market-based
exchange rate and integrating domestic and international capital markets,commented the DOF. As a
result, investors are now able to repatriate their capital at will; exporters are able to retain foreign
sexchange receipts; and all are allowed the free use of foreign exchange funds purchased in the
market.
C. Key Lessons Learned
8.    The DOF suggested that the Bank look into the creation of greater flexibility on
disbursement. At the point when the Philippines had met all conditions necessary for release of the
second tranche, the Government would have preferred more control over the timing of the capital
inflows, given problems with a strengthening exchange rate and some uneasiness in the market in the
wake of the Mexico crisis. However, the imminence of the closing date left the Government with no
roomn to maneuver. Further, the DOF suggested that the Bank reconsider its requirement that the
commitment fee be charged in full in such a situation.
9.    The Government also suggested that the Bank reconsider its audit requirements for
adjustment loans. Audit reports for loans disbursed against general imports, when the amount
disbursed is relatively small compared with the flow  of imports overall, do not improve
implementation and constitute unneccessary bureaucratic procedures, from the perspective of the
Government.
10.   The Government also noted that this program would have been more efficient if it had been a
sinigle tranche. The substantial actions of the program were all first tranche conditions, while second
tranche conditions merely supported progress on reforms already made. The delays on a small
number of the multiple and detailed second tranche conditions created the incorrect perception that
the program was not going as well as planned.
III. Conclusions
11.   The mission agreed to incorporate the Government's comments into the final Implementation
Completion Report, as appropriate, and advised the Government to proceed quickly in preparing its
contribution.



-19-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ECONOMIC INTEGRATION LOAN (LOAN NO. 3539-PH)
Appendix B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Note: The Department of Finance of the Government of the Philippines reviewed
the draft ICR. Their comments were limited and were incorporated into the report (See
footnotes to paras. 13, 16, 27, and 31). The Bank has received a draft of the borrower's
contribution to the ICR, but the Department of Finance had not finalized it by December
29, 1995. The Government requested that the Bank proceed without their portion.









IMAGING
Report No:       15209
Type: ICR



