Page  1
                                                    March 11, 1993
The Honorable
Ramon Del Rosario, Jr.
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Dear Mr. Secretary:
                  Re:  Loan No. 3539 PH
                       Economic Inteqration Loan
      Please refer to the loan agreement for the above-referenced
loan (Loan Agreement) entered into by and between the Republic of
the Philippines (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated December 23, 1992.
      Please also refer to the proposed co-financing arrangements to
be entered into by and between The Export-Import Bank of Japan
(Japan EXIMBANK) and the Republic of the Philippines.
      To satisfy the requirements of Japan EXIMBANK, the Bank agrees
to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     l. An additional recital (c) shall be added as follows:
            WHEREAS Under an agreement (the Japan EXIMBANK
            Agreement) to be entered into between The Export-Import
            Bank of Japan (Japan EXIMBANK) and the Borrower, Japan
            EXIMBANK intends to make a loan (the Japan EXIMBANK
            Loan) to co-finance the Program in an amount up to the
            equivalent in Yen of two hundred million dollars
            ($200,000,000).
      2.   Article IV is deleted and there is substituted in its
      place the following:
                            Article IV
                       Remedies of the Bank
       Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified, namely:
       (a) that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out; and
(b) subject to Section 4.02 of this Agreement:
      (i)   that the right of the Borrower to withdraw the Japan
            EXIMBANK Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
            terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
            thereof, or
      (ii)  that the Japan EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and
            payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      Section 4.02.  Paragraph (b)  of Section 4.01 shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the Japan EXIMBANR Agreement; and (ii) adequate
funds for the Program are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Page  2
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the form of confirmation below and by returning
this letter to us. A signed duplicate original of this letter is
enclosed for your records.
      We are sending a copy of this letter to Japan EXIMBANK for
information.
                         Yours sincerely,
                          Gautam S. Kaji
                          Vice President
                   East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By: Authorized Representative
Date:  11 March 1993
