Document of
The World Bank
REPORT No 22225 AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.3 MILLION
(US$5.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 22, 2001)
Currency Unit = Manat
1,000 Manat = US$0.218
US$1 = 4,587 Manat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decemnber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIB    -      Agroprom Bank
ANB   -       Azerbaijan National Bank
APL   -       Adaptable Program Loan
AZM   -       Azeri Manats
BUSbank -     United Universal Joint Stock Bank
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy
DCA   -       Development Credit Agreement
EBRD  -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FSTA  -       Financial Sector Technical Assistance
GDP   -       Gross Domestic Product
GoA   -       Govermnent of Azerbaijan
lAS    -      International Accounting Standards
IBA    -      International Bank of Azerbaijan
IBTA   -      Institutional Building Technical Assistance
IDA    -      International Development Agency
IMF   -       International Monetary Fund
IT     -      Information Technology
LIL    -      Learning and Innovation Loan
NBFI  -       Non-Bank Financial Institution
MoF   -       Ministry of Finance
PIB    -      Prominvest Bank
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
PMR   -       Project Management Report
PPF    -      Project Preparation Facility
PRGF  -       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSR    -      Public Sector Reform
RTGS  -       Real Time Gross Settlement
SAC   -       Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE   -       Statement of Expenditure
SvB    -      Savings Bank
TA     -      Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Johamnes Linn
Country Director    Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:    Alexander Fleming/Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader:    Rochelle Hilton



AZERBAIJAN
FINANCIAL SECrOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environmental                                                                      14
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           18
2. Other                                                                             18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  28
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 39
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           41
MAP(S)



AZERBAIJAN
Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: May 15,2001                                Team Leader: Rochelle Hilton
Country Director: Judy O'Connor                  Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Project ID: P070973                              Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ I Loan    [Xi Credit    [ I Grant    [ I Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.4 million equivalent (SDR 4.3 million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:   Source                                   Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      0.25           0.00          0.25
IDA                                                           0.00           5.40          5.40
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                            0.60           0.00          0.60
Total:                                                        0.85           5.40          6.25
Borrower: AZERBAIJAN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND AZERBAIJAN NATIONAL BANK
AZERBAIJAN NATIONAL BANK, Project Management Unit
Address: Baku - 370070, 32 R. Behbudov Street, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Rustam Tahirov
Tel: 994 12 973 970               Fax: 994 12 973 970               Email: Tahirov.rustam@nba.az
Other Agency(ies):
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Baku, Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Yashar Mamedov, Director of Internal Debt Department
Tel: 994 12 93 93 44            Fax: 994 12 98 79 69               Email:
Estimated disbursements Bank FYiUSSM):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.50        1.20       1.70      1.60      0.40
Cumulative    0.50       1.70       3.40       5.00      5.40
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/15/2001  Expected closing date:  02/28/2006



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Since 1996, the Government of Azerbaijan has been trying to implement a strategy which includes the
restructuring and divestiture of the state-owned banks, as well as the development of financial sector
infrastructure and strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework. Progress has been made in
some areas of banking sector reform since the two-tier banking system was created in 1992. The
Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) has been proactive in the area of reforr, has undertaken its own
restructuring, has strengthened its banking supervision skills and is in the process of looking at the
vulnerability of private banks. An effort was made, with support from the IDA-financed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) and Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA I), to restructure
and turn around three state-owned banks (Agroprom, Prominvest and Savings Bank). However, despite
these efforts Agroprom (AIB) and Prominvest (PIB) continued to run operating losses and had little
franchise value. They continued to suffer from poor management, internal controls and governance and
remained deeply insolvent with bad loan portfolios. These problems were also endemic to many of the
private banks. Furthermore, significant weaknesses remained in the financial sector infrastructure, legal
framework supporting banking activity and banking supervision. As a result, progress in the development
and improvement of financial services and financial intermediation has been slow.
By late 1999, the banking sector was showing signs of significant stress, as revealed by widespread
operational losses, lack of liquidity and insufficiency of capital. The resulting low level of confidence in
banks was restricting their ability to attract the savings of individuals and enterprises, as well as the
provision of lending, payment and other banking services to support economic growth. The Government
recognized that more drastic actions than previously initiated were needed to turn around the financial
sector. As a consequence, since late 1999, the Government has intensified its efforts to address the
problems and has requested further support from the World Bank and the IMF in this regard. In support of
the Government's intensified efforts, the Bank and the IMF jointly drafted a financial sector strategy and
discussed it with the Government.
The Government has already initiated actions to implement this strategy, including moving ahead with a
very difficult and politically sensitive decision to close down AIB, PIB and the Savings Bank (SvB). The
United Universal Joint Stock Bank (BUSbank) was created from the good assets of the three entities,
primarily those of the SvB, and AIB has been transformed into Agrarcredit (a non-bank credit institution)
which will deal with the collection of bad loans and handle, on an agency basis, some limnited lending
activities (see Section 2 for a discussion of the Government's strategy).
The main objective of the project is to provide technical assistance to the Government of Azerbaijan to
support further implementation of its financial sector development strategy. This technical assistance will
focus on: (i) bank restructuring and divestiture; and (ii) enhancement of banking infrastructure and banking
supervision.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project will support the Government's program to reform the banking sector. Key
performance indicators are ambitious and may not all need to be met for the project to be successful and
achieve its objectives. The key performance indicators for the sector would be:
*   Strengthened financial sector infrastructure
*   Reduction in the number of state-owned banks and consolidation of commercial banks to strengthen
- 2 -



their capital base and operational effectiveness
Performance indicators relating to the achievement of the project objectives would include:
*   Finalization of the closure of the three state-owned banks - ALB, PJIB and SvB (already accomplished)
*   Enhancement of the operational structure of BUSbank, leading to its eventual privatization
*   Enhancement of ANB's supervisory capacity, particularly on-site inspection
*   Implementation of an efficient payments system
* Introduction of LAS-based national accounting standards for commercial banks
Performance indicators relating to component outputs would include:
* Withdrawal of the banking license for AIB, in addition to PIB and SvB (already accomplished)
* Completion of the transfer of selected assets and liabilities to BUSbank and to the loan recovery unit,
based on a portfolio review to assess the collectibility of the bad loans
*   Implementation of an agreed business strategy for BUSbank to strengthen its operational structure, in
accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding agreed with the Ministry of Finance, ANB3 and
BUSbank
*   Initiation of the privatization process for BUSbank
*   Establishment of the legal framework to support a card-based small value payment system
* Implementation of a small value payments system
*   Establishment of Azeri National Accounting Standards compatible with LAS
*   Passage of the required laws and regulations to enable the administration of the above accounting
standards
*   Financial reporting by commercial banks based on the standards prescribed by ANB
* Completion by ANB of the manual of procedures and guidelines for accounting practices
*   Completion of study assessing the need for and design of a collateral registry system
*   Development and strengthening of banking supervision on-site inspection procedures and guidelines
e   Review and revision of the laws and supporting regulations to enhance ANB's supervisory capacity
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-157/1 (IFC-145/1)      Date of latest CAS discussion: 9/14/99
The IDA assistance strategy supports the Government's development agenda of restoring sustained growth
and alleviating poverty. The project is consistent with the Govermnent's strategy and will support one of
the three priorities stated in the Country Assistance Strategy, namely promoting sustainable private sector
growth as a means to reducing unemployment and poverty in a sustainable manner. A well-functioning
financial sector is essential for private sector-led growth. The project would help establish a banking
system that can efficiently mobilize resources and provide financial services, especially to the more remote
and rural areas of the country. To support this goal, the project will provide technical assistance to:
* reduce state ownership of the banling system, with a view to preventing the accrual of additional
losses, restoring confidence in the banking sector and addressing moral hazard issues;
*   enhance financial infrastructure, with particular focus on the development of an efficient payments
system and the introduction of IAS-based national accounting standards;
*   enhance the supervision capacity of the ANB;
*   strengthen the legal and regulatory framework necessary for the development and diversification of
private banking activities and services; and
* promote a competitive environment, encouraging the entry of private foreign investors or joint venture
financial institutions, and raise the level of skills of the overall financial sector.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The banking sector of Azerbaijan is continuing to develop. The sector is relatively small, with total assets
of about US$880 million (26 percent of GDP) in September 2000. Until early in 2000, four state-owned
banks, AIB, PIB, SvB and the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA), dominated the market. The
non-performing loans accounted for well over 90 percent of portfolios of AIB and PIB and, in spite of
consecutive recapitalizations, they continued to run operating losses. In addition, the banking sector has
the following characteristics:
*  until earlier this year, the payment and settlement systems were rudimentary, with interbank payments
carried out primarily on a physical basis. The inefficiency of the payments system did not provide the
degree of confidence required to support the development of the financial sector and constitutes an
additional cost of financing for the private sector. A Real Time Gross Settlement system started
operating in February 2001, with encouraging initial results. This system handles large payments and
action now needs to be focused on the settlement of small value (retail) payments;
*   the private commercial banking network consists of about 60 banks, most of which are seriously
under-capitalized and play a limited role (less than ten percent of the total sector);
* although the ANB and the Government intend to encourage the opening of foreign banks, this presence
is currently limited;
* with assistance from the IMF, banking supervision and banking regulation have been strengthened but
more needs to be done, particularly to improve the clarity and transparency of rules and strengthen
enforcement;
_ although an International Accounting Standards (IAS)-based chart of accounts for banks was prepared
and introduced in early 2000, lAS-based national accounting standards have not yet been completed.
The Government's strategy
The Government and the ANB, in close cooperation with both the Bank and the IMF, adopted, in late 1999,
a comprehensive strategy for systemic banking sector reform.  The strategy (summarized in the
Governnent's letter to the Bank dated April 20, 2001) is aimed at three broad areas: (a) a more effective
approach to restructuring and divestiture of the state-owned banks, (b) a more systematic focus on
problems in the private banking sector, and (c) actions to identify more clearly and address weaknesses in
the broad infrastructure supporting banking activity. The main elements of this strategy include: (a)
effective closure of AIB and PIB through a limited merger of the viable parts of ATB, SvB and PIB into a
new bank; (b) strengthening and development of the operational structure of the new bank with a view to its
eventual privatization; (c) work-out of the loan portfolios of AIB, SvB and PIB, through the establishment
of a loan recovery mechanism, if deemed necessary; (d) restructuring, consolidation and strengthening of
the private commercial banks; (e) broadening of the role of foreign investors as a source of capital,
technology and know-how transfer; (f) enhancing of the legal and regulatory framework, resources and
capacity for bank supervision and regulation; (g) strengthening of the financial infrastructure (accounting,
auditing, payments system) necessary for supporting a sound, efficient banking system. The Government's
long-term goal is to have a sound, efficient private banking system, which would support the needs of a
functioning market economy.
Recognizing that past efforts to improve the performance of the state-owned banks did not produce the
desired results and, even if additional recapitalization and operational restructuring of AMB and PIB were
made, their long-term viability was doubtful, the Government recently accelerated implementation of the
-4-



above strategy and has achieved significant results. The BUSbank was created in February 2000 from the
merger of the viable parts of AIB, SvB and PIB. As part of this process and consistent with the strategy,
the banking licenses of PIB and SvB were withdrawn in July 2000. The banking license of AIB was
initially limited and was subsequently withdrawn, effective April 1, 2001. A new limited license was issued
to BUSbank according to which the bank is allowed only to collect deposits, perform limited foreign
exchange activities, invest in government securities and perforn cash payment services for the Social
Protection and Pension Funds and other budgetary entities. The terms of the license firther prohibit
BUSbank from engaging in lending activities for two years, so that it will, in effect, operate as a narrow
bank. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance (MoF), as the sole owner of the BUSbank, has issued bonds, for
a total of AZM 52 billion, to meet BUSbank's minimum capital requirement according to the existing
legislation, although a further contribution may be needed to bring the bank into full compliance with
ANB's capital requirements. Over the next two years, the operational structure of the BUSbank will be
developed and an effective lending capacity established to help strengthen the bank and improve its
efficiency, introduce competition into the banking sector, and create the conditions for the eventual
privatization of the bank through the sale of a controlling share to a strategic investor. A Memorandum of
Understanding defining the activities of BUSbank, prepared in cooperation with the World Bank and the
IMF, was signed in April 2001 by the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the ANB and the management
of BUSbank. Efforts to strengthen the BUSbank are expected to include the upgrading of its internal
management and operational systems, and further rationalization to strengthen its operational structure.
The eventual privatization of the BUSbank will require additional planning and effort with emphasis on
avoiding a negative impact on depositors' confidence and the Government's macroeconomic management
policies and practices. The proposed project will support the Government and BUSbank's management in
carrying out this program.
Actions will also need to be initiated to carry out the disposition and liquidation of the remaining financial
and physical assets of the merged banks. In this regard, the former AIB has been transformed into a
non-bank credit institution (Agrarcredit). Legal actions are in process to complete the establishment of
Agrarcredit, which will have two functions: (i) the collection of bad loans from the former Agroprom,
Prominvest and Savings Banks; and (ii) the carrying out of the agency function for specific agricultural
lending projects of international financial institutions. The Government will establish a loan recovery unit
within Agrarcredit to undertake the aggressive collection of the bad loans, with a view to maximizing net
recoveries. However, at end-October 2000, the Government passed legislation on debt relief, under the
terns of which state enterprise debt incurred prior to October 1, 2000, could be forgiven. This legislation
could substantially reduce the magnitude of the non-performing loans to be transferred to this unit although
the full impact of its provisions has not yet been assessed. To this end, the Government intends to carry
out a study to assess the collectibility of the non-performing loan portfolios of AIB, PIB and SvB and,
based on the findings of the study and taking into account the impact of the new legislation, will decide on
the operational structure of this unit. The proposed project will provide the institutional, legal and
operational support for the creation and start up of this unit, which would have a limited life.
The Government's strategy also encompasses strengthening banking supervision and regulations,
improving the legal framework, and providing the financial infrastructure, necessary for the development of
private banking. Some progress has been made in each of these areas. The IMF has been providing
extensive support to the ANB for off- and on-site supervision, but further assistance is needed, particularly
to improve ANB's on-site inspection capacity. The proposed project would support the strengthening of
banking supervision. With regard to strengthening financial infrastructure, including the payments system
and accounting and audits, a new chart of accounts that conforms with International Accounting Standards
has been developed for the banking sector. In addition, implementation (with support from the ongoing
IDA-financed Institution Building Technical Assistance Project - IBTA I) of a modern payments system
- 5 -



(Real Time Gross Settlement - RTGS) system and a core general ledger system are underway. Substantial
work remains to be done to develop and introduce national accounting standards and procedures in
conformity with IAS so that the new chart of accounts can be effectively implemented and transparency of
the banking system improved, to complete the payment system reform and to expand ANB's general ledger
system. The Government is also envisioning the development of a collateral registry system to help
improve effectiveness and cost efficiency in delivering secured lending services to the private sector. The
proposed project will provide support for these activities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will support the Government in its effort to implement the above agenda of reforms.
The technical assistance is designed to ensure that adequate resources are in place in a timely manner to
facilitate the continued implementation of the Government's financial sector reform program.
The political decision has been made to establish the loan recovery mechanism within Agrarcredit. The
operations and scope of the activities of this unit will depend on the findings of a portfolio review to be
carried out by outside experts, and taking into account the impact of the recent legislation on Debt Relief
The technical assistance needed for this unit could be limited, depending on the findings of this assessment.
In the event that the funding allocated for this purpose is not needed, it could be used for other
project-related activities. Furthermore, the eventual privatization of this unit could be considered during
project implementation.
The authorities are concerned that appropriate arrangements should be put in place to provide rural credit,
particularly in view of the liquidation of AIB. However, as AIB had not been servicing the rural population
in the past (since its basic focus was on funding large cooperatives and state farms), its closure will have
no adverse impact. Furthermore, the issue of the availability of credit to the rural sector is being addressed
under other IDA-financed operations: (i) the recently approved Agricultural Development and Credit
Project, which is about to start up, would help create sustainable funding structures, such as credit
cooperatives and village banks; and (ii) arrangements are underway to ensure that the agency function for
lines of rural credit that a.e being provided under the Farm Privatization Project remains with Agrarcredit.
In this regard, a study has recently been completed which indicates that this institution could recover
sufficient operating costs to make retaining this function sustainable. Specific activities for rural credit are,
therefore, not included in the proposed operation.
The privatization of the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA) has been part of the Government's
financial sector strategy for some time, since IBA's timely and proper privatization is essential for the
future development of the Azeri banking sector. Currently around 49 percent of IBA's shares are held by
private entities. The authorities have indicated their intention to privatize the 51 percent that remain in
Government hands and have issued a Presidential Decree outlining the plan for this privatization.
According to this plan, 20 percent of the shares would be sold to a fit and proper foreign strategic
investor(s), including IFis, a little over 25 percent would be sold to the public at cash auctions, and 5
percent would be kept by the Government The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) has been providing support for the IBA and had indicated its interest in taking an equity share in
this bank. Discussions between the Government and EBRD are continuing, including, inter alia, questions
relating to the privatization formula and the percentage interests that would be sold to the strategic investor
and to the public. The final decision of EBRD on its involvement in the transaction has not yet been taken.
The privatization of IBA, which entails the transfer of majority ownership and/or control to a fit and proper
investor(s), is an important issue for the future of the banking sector. This issue is being actively pursued
by the IMF under its program.  In view of the IMF's and EBRD's involvement, and as a technical
- 6 -



assistance project is not an appropriate vehicle for dealing with policy conditionalities, issues relating to
IBA and its privatization have not been included in this operation.
As the design of the collateral registry system is not yet defined, implementation of this component will be
realized in phases, the first of which will be supported by the project. This would comprise an initial
assessment to: (i) verify that there is sufficient demand from all interested parties for credit using movable
property as security; (ii) verify that an appropriate legal framework is in place; and (iii) establish that the
Government is willing to provide its commitment for implementation, with a clear ownership structure.
Subsequent phases provide for revisions to the legal framework and preparations for the operation of a
collateral registry systern, followed by implementation of the system. If sufficient funding becomes
available under the Credit, consideration could be given to supporting further work in this area.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project is divided into two main parts: (i) support to the Ministry of Finance to implement its
program for bank restructuring and divestiture, including assistance to strengthen and prepare the
BUSbank for its eventual privatization, and to establish a loan recovery mechanism within Agrarcredit, the
non-bank credit institution which has been created out of the former AIB; and (ii) support to the ANB,
particularly to strengthen banking supervision and banking sector infrastructure. It also includes assistance
to support project management and administration.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
-- . - - ; Coiponert        Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
Ministry of Finance:                                     1.96      31.4       1.70      31.5
- Advisor to Ministry of Finance
- Assistance to BUSbank
- Assistance to Agrarcredit
Azerbaijan National Bank:                               3.97       63.5       3.40      63.0
- Advisory services for senior
management and IT
- Banking supervision
- Financial sector infrastructure
Project Management                                      0.32        5.1       0.30       5.6
Total Project Costs                    6.25     100.0       5.40      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00       0.0       0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                      6.25     100.0       5.40      100.0
-7-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will support the Government's program to reform the banking sector in order to
encourage improvement of financial intermediation and diversification of services. It will focus specifically
on the rationalization and strengthening of commercial banks, strengthening of financial sector
infrastructure, and strengthening bank supervision. Although this is not a policy-based operation, it is
designed to complement the program of financial sector reform that the IMF is discussing with the
Government.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project aims to minimize the fiscal cost of the banking sector reform program by curtailing the
loss-making operations of the state-owned banks and by taking actions leading to divestiture, including
initiating a privatization program.  Strengthening banking sector infrastructure, prudential banking
procedures and practices, legal and judicial environment, accounting practices and encouraging the
development of sound private banks will, in the medium-term, help increase financial intermediation, and,
ultimately, place the banking sector on a sounder footing.  A  well-functioning, transparent and
cost-efficient financial environment is an essential element for private sector development, and provides the
poor with access to credit and other financial services. The benefits from this project will help contribute
to the authorities' objectives to achieve this long-term goal.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented over about 4 years. A mid-term review will be carried out by October
31, 2003.
Details of the implementation arrangements were agreed during appraisal and are described in the Project
Implementation Plan. It has been agreed that the ANB will be responsible for overall project coordination
and administration. In this regard, the deputy governor responsible for banking supervision has been
assigned responsibility for general oversight of the project. To handle the day-to-day project management,
a Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established in the ANB, to take care of administration and
implementation activities. The PMU will report to and be under the general supervision of the Director of
the Foreign Relations Department of ANB. The PMU is staffed by two procurement officers, one of whom
will head the Unit, a financial management specialist, from the Accounting Department of the ANB, and an
administrative assistant/office manager. The financial management specialist will also be supported, on a
part-time basis, by another officer from the Accounting Department who will handle disbursements of the
project funds. Additional support will be provided under the project for procurement advisory services.
Technical responsibility for the project components will rest with the Ministry of Finance and the ANB, as
appropriate. The PMU will liaise closely with the various beneficiaries, including BUSbank and
Agrarcredit, to ensure that project activities are handled effectively, in a timely fashion and in accordance
with World Bank requirements, as well as that adequate information is provided for reporting purposes.
The proposed project will provide funding, during the frst year of implementation, to cover limnited
incremental operating costs required for the establishment of the financial management system on the
existing hardware of the PMU and training for PMU staff in procurement, project and financial
management under World Bank financed projects. All other operating costs, including staff salaries, office
space, utilities, office supplies, and communication costs will be covered by the ANB.
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible, from a technical point of view, for overseeing the components
related to the BUSbank and Agrarcredit. The management of these two entities will be responsible for the
- 8 -



day-to-day irnplementation of the assistance for which they are the primary beneficiaries. The MoF has
designated the Director of the Internal Debt Department as the main counterpart for the project with
responsibility for implementation of issues relating to these components, in close coordination with
BUSbank and Agrarcredit. This official will report directly to the Minister on project-related issues and
will liaise closely with the PMU to facilitate effective project implementation and management.
ANB will be responsible for the financial and banking infrastructure component, including the development
and implementation of LAS compatible accounting standards for banks, improving the payments system,
augmenting the general ledger system and assessing the needs for a collateral registry system, as well as for
the banking supervision component. Project managernent would also be the overall responsibility of the
ANB.
Retroactive fnancing may be required to ensure the early establishment of the financial management
system, as well as the timely appointment of the advisory services for BUSbank and to review the options
for the small value payments system.
Project Financial Management: A project specific financial management system, similar to one that is
being used for other IDA-financed projects in Azerbaijan, has been established in the PMU. TOR for this
assignment were agreed with the PMU and can be found in the PIP. The accounting system will be
maintained in accordance with intemational standards, based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping.
The Bank infomied the PMU of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records in accordance
with Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS). This system that has been acquired is capable of providing
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning, internal
controls, accounting and financial reporting and audit arrangements relating to the project. The project
accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal mission with the assistance of the
PMU. The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of
funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting requirements. Cash basis
accounting will be applied. The proposed system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative
budgeted and actual expenditures, link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities
of the project.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of traditional disbursement
methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs and full
docunentation). Once the PMU's capacity and experience has improved with regard to internal controls,
implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the ANB/PMU, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on
the timing and transition to the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes. It is expected that
PMU will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of PMRs by March 31, 2002. The PMU will
maintain the Special Account in the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA) for the disbursement of Credit
funds. An independent accredited auditing firm will audit the accounts annually.
Internal Controls: Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management are being
documented in an Operational Manual, which is being prepared by the PMU and which encompasses all
levels of project management and administration. The Bank will review the drft Manual and give its
comments. The PMU will incorporate these comments, as well as comments from the Ministry of Finance,
and finalize the manual prior to Credit Effectiveness. The Manual will include financial management
procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the
project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and
formats of project management reports. Further actions to strengthen project financial management are
shown in Annex 6.
-9-



The PMU will prepare project information for all components and prepare quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) including a financial report, project progress report and procurement management report,
for project monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank. An outline of reports contained in the
system and the format for the PMRs, which were provided to the PMU during appraisal, have been
discussed and agreed
Auditing Arrangements: The PMU will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference (TOR)
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors selected for the Project are required to be members of the
Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to
the Bank with the audit report six months after end of each year audited. The ANB has already appointed
auditors to carry out the 2001 audit of ANB's financial statements. During negotiations, it was agreed that
the same auditors, who were selected on a competitive basis, will be retained to audit the project accounts
for the Year 2001. The cost of the annual project audit will be financed from the proposed IDA Credit.
An Implementation Completion Report and plan for the future operation of the project will be prepared by
the Borrower within six months after the completion of the Project. Agreement was reached dunng
negotiations on the above reporting requirements, submission schedule and procedures.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Preparation of the proposed Financial Sector Technical Assistance (FSTA) Project started as a financial
sector component of the proposed Second Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA II),
which focuses on public administration reform and institution building. Given the multiple objectives and
complexity of the proposed IBTA II, as well as the need to link the IBTA II to overall progress in the
implementation of the Govemrnment's public sector reform agenda, it was decided that it would be more
appropriate to separate the financial sector work from that project. The FSTA Project will provide crucial
technical assistance to the banking sector and also complements the IMF's financial sector program. A
free-standing financial sector operation will enable this essential program to move ahead even if there are
delays in irnplementing the politically sensitive public sector reform programL
Financing through either a Leaming and Innovation Loan (LIL) or an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was
not considered to be an appropriate instrument for this operation. The operation does not meet the criteria
for a LIL since the objective of the project is not to build institutional capacity in preparation for a
large-scale operation, it is not of a pilot nature and the proposed Credit exceeds the current limit for LlLs.
The APL was also not considered a suitable instrument. Although a comprehensive approach in providing
assistance for the implementation of banking sector reform is needed, it is not considered appropriate to
phase the technical assistance. This is true in spite of the fact that, given the ambitious nature of the
program, the degree of success achieved in all areas included in the project is likely to be uneven.
The possibility of using donor financing for selected components was also explored but the availability of
alternative sources of financing is limited. Flexibility is being built into this project to allow funds to be
targeted to alternative project-related activities, particularly if donor funding subsequently becomes
available for any component in a timely manner.
- 10 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress IP)   Objective (DO)
Policy-based operation           Structural Adjustment Credit      S            S
(SAC)
Public and financial sector TA   Institutional Building Technical  S            S
Assistance Project (IBTA I)
Public sector TA                 IBTA II (under preparation)
Other development agencies
IMF                               PRGF
Payments System
Banking Supervision
Accounting Reform
UNDP                              Preparation of the Chart of
Accounts
EU - TACIS                        Bankers Training Center
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Technical assistance projects have a mixed performance record both within the Bank Group and in the
ECA Region. Experience, including that gained from the implementation of the IBTA Project, has been
taken into account in the design of the proposed project. The main lessons learned and actions taken are
summarized below:
(i) The main element of success in technical assistance is the commitment and ownership of the relevant
stakeholder, at both the design and implementation stage. Experience gained from the IBTA Project also
suggests that slow implementation of reform affects the development of the institutions supporting the
reform program. Preparation of the FSTA Project has proceeded only after the strong commitment of both
the highest levels of Government and the ANB was clearly demonstrated and the actions required to
implement the financial sector reform strategy initiated. To reinforce this commitment, the Government has
written a letter to the Bank outlining its plans and vision for the development of the banking sector (see
Section 4). This letter will provide the basis for exiting from the project, if needed, in the event that the
Government does not follow through with the implementation of the reform program.
(ii) Earlier lessons point to the desirability of retaining a degree of flexibility in the project to allow
adjustments to respond to changing priorities within the overall framework of the operation. If the
implementation period is lengthy, there is a risk that individual priorities become less relevant. To
maintain the desired flexibility, activities for the first year of the project will be agreed in detail, other
activities will be refined as part of project supervision. To avoid a lengthy implementation period, the
-I1 -



project is designed to allow the program to be completed in about three years, with a little more than one
additional year to provide for implementation delays. This contingency is realistic given the ambitiousness
of the refonn program supported by the project and taking into account experience from other operations
which indicate that technical assistance programs rarely proceed as quickly as expected.
(iii) The IBTA Project supported the implementation of a very broad agenda, across many institutions.
Performance of one institution could impact the overall project. The proposed project, although
ambitious, is limited to the financial sector. Progress in other areas of public sector reform could benefit
this operation but the project does not depend on this and could, therefore, proceed independently of this
agenda. Experience with other projects shows that restructuring of banks alone is not sufficient to support
the development of a well-functioning financial sector. Therefore, the scope of the project focuses on
different elements of the financial sector which are interlinked. In addition, sound regulations and
supervision, a good supporting legal framework, adequate rules and practices on auditing and accounting,
as well as other elements of financial infrastructure, such as a payments system, are also necessary
requirement and are supported by this project.
(iv) Finally, the existence of adequate implementation capacity and management continuity are also
necessary conditions. Implementation will be closely monitored and performance measured against
concrete and specific indicators. Procurement and financial management capacity are weak but resources
are provided under the project to train PMU staff and for procurement experts to provide guidance and to
transfer the needed knowledge and expertise to their Azeri counterparts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government and the Azerbaijan National Bank have consistently reiterated their commitment to
financial sector reforr, banking sector restructuring and bank privatization. The authorities have agreed
on a comprehensive banking reform strategy with the IMF and the Bank and have demonstrated their
commitment by achieving progress in a number of sensitive areas, including the effective closure of the
three state-owned banks, the establishment of a new bank (the BUSbank) from the good assets of these
banks, the ongoing implementation of a modem payments system, development of an lAS-based chart of
accounts for the banking sector and the ANB's ongoing efforts to improve banking supervision.
Furthermore, the ANB has recently completed an extensive reorganization to help modernize and increase
the efficiency of the institution and has asked for support from the project, particularly for the newly
created internal audit department, accounting and IT departments as well as for a policy adviser to help
with strategic planning. There is clear recognition and high-level support from the Government and the
ANB that prompt action to support reform of the banking sector is a prerequisite for the resumption of
economic growth and private sector development. The project will provide the needed technical assistance
to help the authorities continue in the implementation of the agreed reform program. As further evidence of
the Government's commitment to carry out this reform program, during negotiations, the Prime Minister
sent a letter to the Bank outlining the Government's intentions for banking sector reform and the steps it
plans to take to realize this.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project continues and expands the technical assistance already provided to the Government
through the IBTA project. The Government, the ANB and other international donors look to the IDA and
the IMF to provide continued support to the Government to help sustain banking sector development.
- 12 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable
Fiscal Impact:
The losses incurred by the state-owned banks have a substantial cost to the Government's budget.
Furthermore, poor financial controls and accountability, and limited lending capacity have prevented the
development of a sound banking sector. The proposed project will support the Government's efforts to: (a)
resolve issues relating to the state-owned banks; (b) strengthen the financial sector and encourage private
banking; (c) promote financial intermediation; and (d) build on the foundation for increased private sector
development. It is, therefore, expected to assist the Government in reducing the insolvency in the financial
sector and curtailing the losses of state-owned banks, thereby minimizing exposure to potential further
fiscal costs. The budgetary implications of the liquidation of the three banks and the establishment of
BUSbank will be limited to the interest payments due on Government contributions made to BUSbank and
to ANB to cover previous losses accrued on the lending portfolios of the three banks and to satisfy
mninimum capital requirements. To date, the Government has issued bonds to the BUSbank with a value of
Manat 52 billion (about US$12 million equivalent), for this purpose. A further govenmment contribution
may be needed so that the bank is in full compliance with the capital requirements of ANB.
3. Technical:
Successful financial sector reforms require high-quality advice and expertise in a number of areas. These
technical skills are weak in the banking sector. The project will ensure that the Government of Azerbaijan
has access to the necessary expertise, through top level advisors and consultants, to facilitate the
achievement of its reform objective in a timely manner. An important element of the project will be for the
experts hired to train and transfer these skills to counterparts, for example in banking supervision and
accounting, particularly in the area of on-site examinations.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The implementation responsibility for the proposed project will be shared by the Ministry of Finance and
the National Bank of Azerbaijan. However, the institutional capacity of the both of these executing
agencies is weak. Due to their lack of expertise, the proposed project includes consulting services to
provide guidance and advice in procurement matters, as well as experts to assist both the MoF and ANB in
questions relating to overall policy formulation, management and strategic planning.
The MoF will be responsible, on a technical level, for the restructuring, strengthening and eventual
privatization of BUSbank and the establishment of the loan recovery unit. The project will provide
resources to build the necessary capacity within the MoF, to ensure effectiveness of implementation.
- 13 -



The ANB will be responsible for banking supervision and infrastructure components. Banking supervision
will be managed from a technical point of view by the Supervision department Support for accounting
reform, implementation of the small value payment system and expansion of the general ledger will be
under the technical responsibility of the Accounting and Settlement Department These departments have
sufficient capacity to manage these components, with the help of the PMU and with consultants' assistance,
as appropriate, particularly in the preparation of technical specifications for IT systems.
4.2 Project management:
The PMU in the ANB, in close liaison with the Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for overall project
coordination, financial management, procurement, accounting and disbursement. The ANB has some
limited capacity to manage project implementation from experience gained through its involvement in other
Bank-financed projects, but will require substantial support under the project to supplement this, to build
on the existing experience. To address this weakness, the proposed project will provide the necessary
outside expertise to improve capacity within the ANB to ensure effectiveness and timeliness in
implementation. Furthermore, it is anticipated that an intensive supervision effort will be required.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement will be centralized within the ANB, which has limited procurement experience to date. To
mitigate this problem, training will be provided to the two staff responsible for procurement and an
internationally recruited procurement adviser will provide additional assistance.
4.4 Financial management issues:
From a financial management perspective, the risks associated with the Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Project are limited. The Credit amount is relatively small, with a few large contracts expected.
Financial flows in the majority of the cases would be from the Special Account directly to the consultants
or suppliers. To mitigate any unforeseen problems, an Operational Manual has been prepared, which
clearly specifies all the fiduciary responsibilities of the PMU, including the responsibilities of the individual
staff, procedures and guidelines for approving and authorization of payments. The project financial
management system will have the relevant safeguards to protect data entry and data integrity. Procurement
procedures will be closely monitored by the Bank. Qualified staff has been selected for the PMU but they
have no prior experience with Bank-financed projects. To mitigate this problem, funding is being provided
under the project to enable both financial management and procurement staff to participate in relevant
training courses to enhance their understanding of Bank procedures. The project will be audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant environmental issues
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
- 14 -



of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Sunmmarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The proposed project could have a limited social impact, as the initial merger of the three banks which took
place last year has already resulted in some downsizing and displacement of management and personnel of
the three merging banks. According to information from BUSbank, about 1,500 staff were affected
country-wide. These staff received compensation in accordance with provisions of the Labor Code. These
provisions provide for affected staff to be given two months' notice, allowed the opportunity to seek
altemative employment without loss of pay and to receive up to three months' salary, unless they find
alternative employment within this three month period. Within the framework of a personnel and branch
rationalization program to be developed under the project with the help of consultants, there may be some
additional downsizing, particularly in the Baku area, but this process will take place only over time, due to
the current labor-intensive nature of BUSbank's operations, and is not expected to have any measurable
impact. Furthermore, as part of the rationalization program, MoF and ANB are expected to provide for the
re-training and redeployment of bank staff with a view to minimizing the social costs of their phase-out. In
addition, affected staff, who have comparatively good skills, are expected to find alternative employment
relatively easily. They will also receive severance payments, in accordance with the provisions of the local
law. Such payments will not be funded from the project. Given the shortage of experienced bankers in
Azerbaijan, qualified individuals are already finding better positions in the private sector and this trend is
expected to continue, fiurther reducing the negative social impact. In the long-run, the project will bring
about beneficial social effects by building capacity in the banking sector, which would help to stimulate the
private sector, and eventually lead to the creation of new job opportunities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Bank has pursued an ongoing dialogue with key players in the financial sector, including the Prime
Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Azerbaijan, the management of the state-owned
banks. Consultations have also taken place with the Securities Exchange Commission and the other
relevant agencies and institutional bodies involved. The proposed project is tailored to address the needs of
the Government and of these institutions. Meetings have also been held with private bankers and actions
proposed under the project endeavor to address some of their concerns about shortcomings with the
banking system and its infrastructure.
6.3 How does the project involveconsultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
- 15 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do an of the followin safe    licies awl to the project?
Po-mio  o                                      Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The objective of the financial sector reform is to establish a sound, well-fimctioning and competitive
banking system that can mobilize a rising level of financial resources, efficiently service the credit needs of
a growing economy, and provide broadly accessible, efficient and secure payments services at both the
wholesale and retail level. To achieve this objective, the Government and the Azerbaijan National Bank
have begun the implementation of a reform program to realize their comprehensive strategy for systemic
bank restructuring and reform. These reforms are critical for the long-term health and sustainability of the
fmancial sector. In addition, the IMF, in cooperation with the Bank, is also addressing financial sector
issues in its program, which would help achieve the sustainability of the reforms supported by the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The main risk is that the Government will   H         The Government has already taken tangible
waver in its commitment to implement the              steps and imnportant political steps in
financial sector reform program due to               implementing the financial sector reformn
insufficient high-level political support for         program, with the effective closure of AIB, PIB
and possible unpopularity of the actions              and SvB and the establishment of the BUSbank.
which could lead to the further                       The project-related support and the continued
rationalization of personnel and branches             assistance from the IMF will help mitigate this
and the liquidation state-owned assets               risk. The Government letter setting out its plans
for the sector will also help in this respect
Continued dialogue with the Government and
other opinion-leaders in the country on the
benefits of banking sector reform and
modernization.
-16 -



From Components to Outputs
(i) The Government will not follow         N        The Government has already taken the difficult
through on its agreement with the Bank              step of withdrawing the licenses of SvB and
and the IMF to withdraw AIB's banking               PIB. In spite of political opposition to
license                                             withdrawing AIB's banking license, this license
was withdrawn prior to negotiations (on April
1), a further strong indication of the
Government's seriousness to follow through on
the reform program
(ii) The BUSbank will start performing     M        BUSbank may perform limited lending activities
lending activities                                  on an agency basis under ongoing IDA-financed
projects. The risk that it will initiate additional
lending activities is mitigated by the application
by ANB's supervision departmnent of existing
prudential regulations, and the provisions in the
Memorandum of Understanding which establish
the framework BUSbank's operations.
(iii) Resistance by the BUSbank            H        The early appointment of advisers, collaboration
management to technical assistance to               of BUSbank's management in the selection
changeover and accept changes in                    process, and close oversight by the MoF will be
management procedures and policies,                 critical.
accounting and administration, and failure
of the Government to finance from the
state budget privatization advisers needed
to handle the privatization of BUSbank.
(iv) Geneml delays in providing technical  S        Early agreement on terms of reference and
assistance in a timely manner                       subsequent appointment of foreign experts can
help maintain momentum in the Governrnent's
agenda and reduce the risk of delays.
(v) Delays in revising and introducing the  S       same
necessary legal framework supporting
banking sector development and
privatization, as well as private sector
development.
(vi) Commercial banks fail to work with    M        The large value payments (RTGS) system has
the ANB to establish a small value                  recently become operational with very tangible
payments system                                     results. Early initiation of work to establish a
small value payment system will benefit from
the positive momentum of the RTGS system.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Hiring of high-priced foreign consultants
- 17 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the PMU (DCA - 6.01).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Project Implementation/Management:
Continued commitment to the reform program as outlined in the letter of intent for banking sector reform
(DCA - B and 5.01).
Standard auditing covenants will apply (DCA - 4.01).
Qualified personnel will be designated to support project implementation (DCA Schedule 4, para 1).
Monitoring, review and reporting:
Standard reporting covenants will apply.
A mid-term review will be undertaken no later than October 31, 2003 (DCA Schedule 4, para 3(c)).
Disbursements:
Retroactive financing: of up to $100,000 for expenditures incurred after April 15, 2001, including up to
US$40,000 to establish the financial management system and US$60,000 to start up urgent consulting
assignments (DCA Schedule 1, para 3).
The PMU will start to prepare PMRs from the third quarter of 2001. It is expected that the PMU will be
able to produce full PMRs by the quarter ending March 31, 2002 (DCA - 4.02(a)).
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implerrLentation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
LI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
12 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
An Operational Manual is under preparation and will be completed by effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
12 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
- 18 -



Rochelle Hilton                 Paul Siege                       JudyO'&onnor
Team Leader                     Sector Director                  Country Director
-19-



Annex 1: Project Design Sunmnary
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Key Performance
: Hierarch  iy<SZp o~Obj.Indicators                Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote sustainable private   Strengthened financial sector Performance against Financial Government's commitment to
sector growth through    infrastructure, including the   Sector Development   the reforms is sustained. In
development and          legal environment, accounting benchmarks in Country  the long run, interventions in
enhancement of financial    practices, regulation and  Assistance Strategy    the areas of payment systems,
sector.                  supervision, reduced number  (November 1999).        banking laws and regulations,
of state-owned banks and  ANB reports.              banking supervision,
consolidation of commercial                         accounting reform and
banks to strengthen their                           divestiture of state-owned
capital base and operational                        banks will help create a
effectiveness.                                      competitive environment to
stimulate private sector
growth through the
liberalization of resources and
more effective provision of
credit.
Finalization of the closure of                      AIB's license will be
AIB, SvB and PIB.                                   withdrawn prior to
negotiations (actual)
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Provide support to the      * Withdrawal of the     Consultanfts reports.     Withdrawal of AIB's license
Government for further        banking license of AIB, Project monitoring,     (actual).
implementation of its financial    in addition to PIB, and  supervision and evaluation    Government and ANB
sector development strategy.   SvB.                reports.                   maintain their policy for and
Progress and project      commitment to the financial
management reports.       sector reform program.
* Enhancement of the                              BUSbank operates in a sound
operational structure of                       financial and operational
BUSbank leading to its                         situation to ensure successful
eventual privatization.                        privatization.
* Enhancement of ANB's
supervisory capacity,
particularly on-site
inspection.
* Implementation of an
efficient payments
system.
*  Introduction of
lAS-based national
accounting standards for
commercial banks.
- 20 -



ra~che d'Objectv_-t-  ..........;-lcIt#.        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Strengthen the financial   * Completion of the      Consultants' reports      Continued strong support for
situation and operational     transfer of selected  Quarterly progress and    and commitment to the
structure of BUSbank.          assets and liabilities to  supervision reports  program from the Government
BUSbank (and to the    Annual audit of BUSbank in  and the BUSbank
loan recovery unit)    accordance with IAS     management
based on a portfolio  Business plan for BUSbank
review to assess the                           Creation and maintenance of a
collectibility of the bad                      political environment and will
loans                                          to privatize BUSbank
* Implementation of an
agreed business strategy
for BUSbank to
strengthen its
operational structure in
accordance with the
agreed Memorandum of
Understanding
*  Initiation of the                              Ministry of Finance finances
privatization process for                      from the state budget the
BUSbank                                        services of a privatization
advisor
Enhancement of the efficiency   * Establishment of legal  Progress and implementation  Actions to maintain
and quality of financial      framework to support a  reports by consultants  momentum and coordinate
services through improved      small value payment   Project monitoring,      interventions are not delayed
banking sector infrastructure:  system              supervision and evaluation    No impediments exist to
reports                   prevent the establishment of
the appropriate legal
environment
* Implementation of a                             Commercial banks and ANB
small value payments                           are willing to work together to
system                                         implement and operate the
small value payments system
*  Implementation of
accounting and general
administration modules
of ANBs general ledger
*  Establishment of the
National Accounting
Standards compatible
with IAS
* Passage of the required                         The IMF continues to provide
laws and regulations to                        support for accounting reform
enable the
administration of the
above accounting
standards
- 21 -



*  Financial reporting by
commercial banks based
on the standards
prescribed by the ANB
*  Completion by ANB of  Manual of accounting
the manual of        practices
procedures and
guidelines for
accounting practices
*  Completion of study    Assessment Review        Clear agreement on ownership
assessing the need for                          by relevant parties for the
and design of a                                 implementation of a collateral
collateral registry system                      registry system
Improved banking supervision   *  Development and    Consultants' reports.      Effectiveness and timing of
and regulatory capacity.       strengthening of on-site Annual Audit of ANB.    assistance is not derailed by
inspection procedures   Project monitoring,     political pressures or
and guidelines       supervision and evaluation    entrenched interests
reports
*  Review and revision of
laws and supporting
regulations to enhance
ANB's supervisory and
regulatory capacity
Project Components        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
*  MoF                  US$0.11 million            Project status reports,    Timely appointment of
supervision and disbursement advisers and consultants
reports
*  BUSbank              US$1.71 million                                       Strong commitment of MoF
and BUSbank management.
*  Agrarcredit          US$ 0.14 million                                      Government proceeds with the
transformation of AIB into
Agrarcredit (a non-bank credit
institution) and creates a loan
recovery unit
AZERBAIJAN NATIONAL
BANK
* ANB Management        US$0.12 million            Project status reports,    Timely appointment of
supervision and disbursement advisers and consultants.
reports                    Strong commitment of ANB's
management
*  Supervision          US$0.22 million
*  Banking infrastructure  US$3.63million
- 22 -



PROJECT MANAGEMENT
* Procurement, Financial US$0.32 million         Progress reports, disbursement Good coordination between
Management and Audit                          reports and project audit  MoF and ANB on
reports.                 project-related activities.
Timely selection and
appointmnent of consultants to:
(i) assist and train ANB and
MoF staff;
(ii) set-up the fmiancial
management system;
(iii) prepare internal
procedures and standardized
reporting.
-23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.96 million
1. Ministry of Finance for Bank Restructuring and Divestiture
Advisory services to the BUSbank, to strengthen the bank, improve its organization and operations. This
would include:
(a) a foreign advisor for the MoF, who would be in charge of diverse issues, including provision of
assistance related to the issues regarding the transformation of the Agroprom Bank into Agrarcredit (a
non-bank credit institution) and oversight and privatization of the BUSbank;
(b) a resident advisor to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the BUSbank, for about 15 months. The
advisor would assist the CEO in guiding, directing, controlling and supervising the activities of the bank's
line managers, ensuring that the bank operates in an efficient and prudent manner, generates positive
earnings while adequately controlling risk and expenditures, and maintains a strong capital base. The
advisor would also help the CEO in designing and implementing a business strategy and an action plan, in
line with the Memorandum of Understanding that has been signed by bank management, the Ministry of
Finance and the ANB. In addition, the advisor will also perform the final valuation and reconciliation of
the accounts of the BUSbank. It is envisaged that the advisor will be a member of the Management
Committee of the BUSbank;
(c) a short-tern advisor to the Chief Accountant of the BUSbank for about three months. The advisor will
assist the management of the BUSbank in the imnplementation of the new lAS-based chart of accounts,
develop basic accounting policies and procedures to ensure that the bank's accounts are maintained in
accordance with international standards;
(d) short-term consultants services, based on the recommendations of the resident advisor, in such areas as
information technology and Management Information Systems, the intra-bank fund transfer system, the
general ledger and internal control procedures, which need to be improved or strengthened to introduce
efficient standards procedures and strengthen existing operational units. Assistance will include training of
personnel, as well as the design, development and provision of essential software;
(e) annual IAS based financial audits by an acceptable reputable auditing company to cover at least two
years following the establishment of BUSbank;
The pnvatization advisory services (an investrnent bank) eventually needed to assist in BUSbank's eventual
privatization including performance of due diligence, preparation of an information memorandum and legal
documentation, and assistance to the MoF in identifying and selecting fit and proper strategic investors, etc.
will be covered from the Government's budget allocation for privatization.
Advisory Services for the Establishment and Operations ofAgrarcredit
This includes technical assistance to assess the design and legal structure for transforming Agroprom into a
non-bank credit institution (Agrarcredit) to enable it to carry out its mandated objectives and functions. It
-24 -



includes the provision of legal and technical advisors to support the establishment and operations of the
new institution, which will include loan recovery and, on an agency basis, provision of rural credit for six
pilot farms that is being provided under the IDA-financed Farm Privatization Project. A success fee
structure will be designed to cover any loan recovery activities that are carried out to pernit Agrarcredit to
finance its operations and naximize collection.
Project Component 2- US$3.97 million
2. Azerbaijan National Bank
The proposed project will provide assistance to the Government in its effort to strengthen the capacity of
the Azerbaijan National Bank to effectively exercise its regulatory and supervisory roles; and to improve
banking infrastructure. With this in mind, the project will provide support in the following areas:
(a) an advisor to the top management to provide high level support in the implementation of its strategy to
strengthen the ANB;
(b) Banking Supervision: advisors to assist ANB for about twelve months to improve its banking
supervision capacity. This would supplement assistance that is being provided by the IMF and would
focus on on-site inspection by helping with the evaluation of commercial banks in order to effectively
assess their solvency and liquidity condition, management quality, intemal systems and compliance with
prudential regulations.  The objective of this assistance will be to contribute to improving bank
performance and developing a more detailed strategy for addressing systemic weaknesses.
(c) Banking Infrastructure: the existing state of banking infrastructure in Azerbaijan is not conducive to
the development of modem and efficiently functioning banking activity. The proposed project will provide
the following support:
* funding for additional hardware and software needs to finalize the implementation of the payment
system reform. The ANB has developed a strategy for payment system reform based on the
establishment of a Real Time Gross Settlements (RTGS) system for large value payments and a batch
and card-based low-value, retail payments system. An IME Resident Adviser has been assisting the
ANB in the development of this strategy and the RTGS system, supported with fimding from the
ongoing IBTA I project, started operating in February 2001. The initial results of the RTGS are
encouraging as the system now enables settlements to be made within seconds rather than days. The
next phase of the strategy is to implement a small value payments system. The project provides for
consultants' services to examine the options and assist in the development and implementation of this
system, as well as the acquisition of the approved systems, which must be capable of smoothly
interfacing with the newly operational RTGS system. The project also provides for an information
technology (IT) specialist to help the ANB IT department develop and implement its extensive
modernization program;
* funding for the expansion of the ANB's general ledger system. Implementation of the core system
underway with financing from the ongoing IBTA I project. It is important for the ANB to expand this
system by adding additional modules, such as for the management information system, accounting and
reporting and administration. An essential element of this expansion will be that the supplementary
modules are completely compatible with the core general ledger. Project-related assistance will include
consultants' services to prepare and evaluate bidding documents, as well as the procurement of the
relevant modules.
- 25 -



* short-term assistance to develop detailed procedures and an implementation plan for the
introduction and implementation of the new IAS-based national accounting standards for banking
sector. Funding is available under the IBTA I project to finance the introduction of IAS based
accounting standards and uniform chart of accounts for the enterpnse sector. To supplement this, the
ANB has already begun work to develop uniform accounting standards but substantial additional work
is needed. As part of this activity, the proposed project would provide additional assistance to the
Accounting Department of ANB, including a substantial training effort for bankers, bank supervisors
and tax examiners of the MoF in the implementation of the new accounting standards. This support
would complement the training that is being provided through the new Azerbaijan Bank Training
Center (ABTC) which, has recently been established with TACIS funding.
*  short-term consultants' services to carry out an initial assessment of the need for, and alternative
designs to implement, a collateral registry system to facilitate financial intermediation. The system
would help itemize assets utilized by banks, financial entities, enterprises and individuals as collateral
for loans. The assessment would analyze the feasibility of establishing such a system, either as a
combined registry for movable and immovable property or a separate registry for movable property.
Based on the findings and recommendations of this assessment, a decision would be made on the
design, establishment and location for the registry. Consideration could be given to financing
additional activities relating to the establishment of the registry system if sufficient funding becomes
available during project implementation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.32 million
3. ProjectManagementandAdministration
(a) Project audits: provision is included in the project to finance the annual audits of the project and
special accounts.
(b) Procurement advisers: a long-term contract will be concluded with a reputable consulting firm to
provide procurement guidance periodically during the project period. It is anticipated that the adviser
would be resident for the early months of project implementation that be hired on a retainer-basis to provide
advice and guidance as needed over the subsequent two years.
(c) Incremental operating costs: Most of the operating costs for the project, including staff salaries, office
space, utilities, office supplies, communications and postage costs, will be covered by the ANB.
Furthermore, for project start-up the ANB has acquired and implemented a suitable financial management
system (FMS) for the project. The system selected has been used in other IDA-financed projects in the
region and could be financed retroactively from the proposed IDA Credit for this project. The system has
been installed on the PMUYs hardware. In addition, staff assigned to the PMU will require some specialized
training in procurement, financial management and project management under World Bank-financed
projects. These incremental operating costs for the FMS and training for the PMU staff, estimated at about
$60,000, will be financed from the proposed IDA Credit.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Project Cost by Component                      Local      Foreign      ToWl
I US$ ndUilon US$ millioni US$ million
Ministry of Finance (MoF)
Advisory Services to the MoF                                       0.01        0.10        0.11
United Universal Joint Stock Bank (BUSbank)
Management and Operational Strengthening                           0.08        0.80        0.88
Infrastructure development (General Ledger, MIS, Intrabank funds
ransfer)                                                          0.12        0.60         0.72
IAS Financial Audits                                               0.01        0.10        0.11
Subtotal    0.21        1.50        1.71
grarcredit
Operational Start-up, Management and Operational strengthening    0.01         0.10        0.11
Annual Audits                                                      0.00        0.04        0.04
Subtotal   0.01        0.13         0.14
Subtotal MoF    0.23        1.73         1.96
Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB)
Management/Supervision
Advisory Services for Senior Management                            0.02        0.10        0.12
Institutional Development for Banking Supervision                  0.02        0.20        0.22
Subtotal    0.04       0.30         0.34
Banking Infrastructure
Small Value Payments System                                        0.32        2.03        2.35
Expansion of general ledger system                                 0.11        0.57        0.67
Institutional strengthening for IT and Accounting Reform           0.10        0.45        0.55
Assessment of needs for a Collateral Registry System               0.01        0.05        0.06
Subtotal    0.53       3.11         3.64
Subtotal ANB    0.57        3.40         3.97
Project Management
Procurement Services                                               0.02        0.15        0.17
Annual Audits                                                      0.00        0.04        0.04
Incremental Operating Costs                                        0.05        0.06        0.11
Subtotal Project Management    0.07        0.25        0.32
Total Projects Costs                        0.87        5.38         6.25
Project Cost by Category                      Local      Foreign   Total  US$
US$ million US$ million    million
Goods                                                              0.51        2.87        3.38
Services                                                           0.31        2.45        2.76
Incremental Operating Costs                                        0.05        0.06        0.11
Total Project Costs   0.87       5.38        6.25
Total Financing Required    0.87       5.38        6.25
- 27 -



Annex 4
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Not applicabie
-28-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Years Ending
December 31
I Year1  I Year2  I Year 3  1 Year 4        Year 5  I Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
lnvestmentCosts            0.1        1.5       1.7        1.7        1.2       0.1       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.1        1.5       1.7        1.7        1.2       0.1       0.0
Total Financing              0.1        1.5       1.7        1.7        1.2       0.1       0.0
Financing
IBRDSIDA                  0.1        1.1        1.4        1.6       1.1       0.1        0.0
Govemment                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
ANB                        0.0       0.2        0.2        0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.2        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.1        1.5        1.7       1.7        1.2       0.1       0.0
Main assumptions:
Amounts shown are in US$ millions.
Others:   Contributions from BUSbank will be about $80,000 in Yr 2, $60,000 annually in Yrs 3-4 and
$10,000 in Yr I and 20,000 in Yr. 5
Contributions from commercial banks Yrs 3-5: $10,000.
Central Government (Ministry of Finance) contribution will be about $1,000 in Yr 1, $3,500 annually in Yrs.
2-5 and $2,000 in Yr. 6. In addition, privatization advisers to prepare and manage the privatization
transaction for BUSbank will be funded from the central budget fund for privatization.
-29-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines
on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999). The World
Bank's standard bidding documents for IT procurement, and the standard forms of contract and request for
proposals for Consultant Services will be used for the project. Any goods or services not financed by the
World Bank will be procured in accordance with the regulations of the country. A General Procurement
Notice was published in the United Nations' Development Business issue dated April 30, 2001.
Procurement will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) established at the Azerbaijan
National Bank (ANB), for all components of the Project. Two procurement officers have been appointed to
handle the separate requirements of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and ANB comnponents. Given their
limited experience with procurement procedures, a procurement consultant will be hired to augment and
develop capacity at the ANB. In addition, Credit funds have also been earmarked for training, when such
training is available at the Bank or at ILO, Turin.
The cost of installation of software for the FMS would be eligible for retroactive financing.
There has been no Country Procurement Assessment Report prepared for Azerbaijan. However, a capacity
assessment of the PMU has been done, taking into account the experience of the ANB with implementation
of a component under the ongoing IBTA project as well as the procurement environment in the country.
A project launch workshop will be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement, expected in mid-October 2001.
Summary of Procurement Activities, Methods and Schedule
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods:
All contracts for goods (technical services), which are estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or
more each, will be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Consulting Services:
(i) Services for the BUSbank such as resident advisor, advisor to the Chief Accountant, short term
advisors to operational units, and Services for Accounting reform for the ANB will be procured through
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS).
(ii) Short term assignments for the BUSbank to develop software specifications for the General
Ledger, Management Information System, and intra bank funds transfer as well as for the ANB to review
options and prepare bid documents for the small value payments systems (aggregate amount US$0.1
mnillion) would be selected based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) criteria. Each contract shall not exceed
- 30 -



US$0.1 million equivalent.
(iii) Services for bank and project financial audits (aggregate amount US$0.2 mnillion) which are
standardized and have well established practices will be procured through the least cost (LC) method of
selection.
(iv)  Services for the review, revision and development of the legal framework for the small value
payment system (aggregate amount US$0.1 million) will be procured through fixed budget method of
selection.
(v) Services for the first year's Project financial audit may be procured through the single-source
selection method.
(vi) Services to strengthen the capacity of the PMU as well as advisory services for MOF and
ANB management, banking supervision, and ANB IT strategy, and additional short term assignments for
the transformation of the AIB into a non-bank financial institution (aggregate amount US$1.1 million),
would be done through selection of individual consultant (IC) method. The selection of individual
consultants will be in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Incremental Operating Costs:
The credit will finance the incremental operating costs of about US$60,000 to cover the expenses
for the installation of the FMS and training of PMU staff, during the first year. All other expenses,
estimated at US$50,000 over 4 years, would be covered by the ANB, to meet the needs of the PMU project
administration, including staff salaries, communications, maintenance and operation costs for office
equipment, office supplies etc. Items under incremental operating costs will be procured in accordance
with the administrative procedures of the ANB.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
2
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.38           0.00          0.00         0.00        3.38
(2.87)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (2.87)
3. Services                                        0.00         2.76         0.00        2.76
()           (0.00)        (2.45)       (           (2.45)
4. Incremental Operating           0.00            0.00         0.06         0.05        0.11
Expenses
(0.00)         (0.00         (0.06)    _(00)          0.6
Total                           3.38            0.00          2.82         0.05       6.25
(2.87)         (0.00)        (2.51)       (0.00)      (5.38)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes consultants' services and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
- 31 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost'
A. Firms               1.20    000      0.11    0.18     0.20    0.00    0.00       1.69
___________   (1 4)   (0.00)  (0.11)  (0.17)_  (0.18)   (0.00)  (0.00)  _(I.50)
B. Individuals         0.00  1     .00   0.00      0.00           1.07    0.00      1.07
_______ __   __  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.95)   (0.00)   (0.95)
Total~  1.20    0.00    0.11    0.18     0.20     1.07    0.00      2.76
_____________ ~(.04)(0.0)    0.1) 10.1)    (0.18)   (0.95) -(.0            245L
L              I ~~~~~~(1.04) Lo   7o t   )m     (a         (  s   (0.00)   (2.45
1' Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Seiection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Single-source selection, Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 32 -



Pnor review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA. Consultants' contracts estimated to cost over
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, single-source selection contracts, as well as all
TORs and methods for selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of value, shall be subject to prior
review by IDA. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by IDA's supervision missions, or by
focused procurement review or audit missions. IDA rnissions will review at least 2 out of 5 contracts
which are subject to post review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
-Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                          0
2. Goods                          0                      ICB                      3.38
3. Services               (Indiv) more than 50            SIC                     0.85
(Firms) more than 200          QCBS                      1.22
(Firms) more than 100           LCS                      0.10
(Firns) more than 100           CQ                       0.20
(Finns) more than 1 00          SFB                      0.10
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $5.85 m
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 33 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit will be administered by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of
the ANB, under the overall responsibility of the Project Coordinator. The Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed over 4.5 years. IDA will finance: (i) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports of goods, 100 percent of local ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured goods and 80 percent of local expenditures for other goods procured locally, and (iii) 100
percent of incremental operating costs for the first 12 months of the project, to establish the financial
management system and provide training to PMU staff, in accordance with the budget agreed with the
Bank. Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 will be provided for contracts entered into after April
15, 2001, for establishing the financial management system, as well as for advisory services for BUSbank
and for reviewing options for the small value payments system.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$mIllIon         Financing Pecentage
Goods                                     2.65          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
_rocurd plocally
Consultants Services and Training         2.19                        100%
Including Audit
Incremental Operating Costs               0.06            100% until June 30, 2002, and 0%
thereafter
Unallocated                               0.50
Total Project Costs                       5.40
Total                                     5.40
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
(a)    Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
(b)   Consulting firms: contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 equivalent
(c)   Individual consultants: contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent
(d)   Incremental operating costs and training: all contracts
Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the PMU and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be US$200,000, representing approximately four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw
US$100,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the
Credit Account and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to SDR 1,500,000, the Borrower may
withdraw the remaining amount of US$100,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
- 34 -



Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The Special Account will be established in the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA) IBA holds the
Special Accounts for other IDA Credits and was, at that time, selected on a cornpetitive basis. IBA meets
the Bank's requirements in this regard in that it:
(a)  is financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, audited by an intemationally recognized
audit firm;
(b) has significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c) has some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit and
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d)  is a member of SWIFT;
(e)  has issued a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA will not be set, seized or
otherwise attached to satisfy amnounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower,
(f)  is willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by IDA, including regular statements,
and any other information that may be considered necessary; and
(g) charges competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
Fmancial Management:
Project Financial Management. A project specific financial management system has been established at
the PMU. The TOR for this assignment were agreed with the PMU and can be found in the PIP. The
accounting system will be maintained in accordance with international standards, based on principles of
double-entry bookkeeping. The Bank informed the PMU of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts
and records in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). This system is capable of
providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including
planning, internal controls, accounting and financial reporting and audit arrangements relating to the
project. The project accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal mission
with the assistance of the PMU. The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture
sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting
requirements. Cash basis of accounting will be applied. The proposed system will, in addition to
producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the financial data to measures of
output and procurement activities of the project. The Project Management Reporting (PMRs) formats and
submission schedule have been discussed and agreed with the ANB and the PMU.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of traditional disbursement
methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs and full
documentation). Once the PMU's capacity and experience has improved with regard to internal controls,
implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the ANB/PMU, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on
the timing and transition for the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes. It is expected that
PMU will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of PMRs by March 31, 2002. The PMU will
maintain the Special Account in IBA for the disbursement of Credit funds. An Independent accredited
auditing firm will audit these accounts annually.
Internal Controls. Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management will be
documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project management and administration.
A draf has been prepared by the PMU. The Bank and the Ministry of Finance will review the manual and
give their comments. The PMU will incorporate these comments and finalize the manual prior to Credit
- 35 -



Effectiveness. The Manual will include financial management procedures and staffing, identification of
accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring,
procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and formats of project management reports.
Further actions to strengthen project financial mnanagement are shown below.
The PMU will prepare project information for all components and prepare quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) including a financial report, project progress report and procurement management report,
for project monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank. An outline of reports contained in the
system and the format for the PMRs were provided to the PMU and were agreed during Negotiations.
Training will be provided for project management, financial management and procurement. Funding for
these training activities will be provided from the Credit
Auditing Arrangements. The PMU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. The TOR for this assignment have been agreed with the PMU and can be found in the PIP. The
auditors selected for the Project are required to be members of the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). The audit report of the project will include a separate opinion on the project financial statements,
the special account, and the SOE. Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with
the audit report six months after the end of each year audited. Auditors for to audit the 2001 Project
accounts have already been selected. The cost of the audit will be financed through the IDA Credit.
Financial Management Action Plan:
An assessment of the financial management system of the PMU was carried out during project appraisal.
The PMU will be responsible for project accounting, administration of the Special Account, loan
disbursements, procurement and project supervision. The PMU is developing a financial management
system, using software that has been successfully used in other IDA-financed projects in Azerbaijan and
that meets Bank requirements. The PMU's accountant has several years of accounting experience, but
would require training in meeting Bank's procedures and reporting requirements.
PMU and the Bank have agreed on the following timebound action plan regarding the strengthening of
Project Financial Management to meet Bank accounting and fnancial reporting requirements under OP/BP
10.02:
By May 3. 2001:           Install the FMS software on the PMU's hardware.
By May 7. 2001:           Make the FMS operational.
By June 15. 2001:         Fine tune the systern and train PMU staff in its operation.
By December 2001:         Procurement and financial management staff to have received training to
be funded from the Credit.
Project Management Reports:  The PMU will start to prepare PMRs (Reports 1,2 and 3), starting from
the third quarter of 2001. It is expected that, the PMU will be able to
produce full PMRs, by the first quarter ending March 31, 2002.
Disbursements:            The Borrower will utilize the Bank's traditional disbursement method at
the start of the Project and have the option to move to a PMR based
disbursement method after the Bank has issued a 4A certification.
An Implementation Completion Report and plan for the future operation of the Project will be prepared by
the Borrower within six months after the completion of the Project.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing SchedLie
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
BPrQIe4tS #i                ;   a               |Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (month9 9
First Bank mission (identification)            09/08/2000                   09/24/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    03/04/2001                   03/03/2001
Negotiations                                   04/18/2001                   04/20/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/15/2001
Prepared by:
The World Bank in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and the Azerbaijan National Bank.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Rochelle Hilton                  Task team leader/Project implementation
Tunc Uyanik                      Banking sector specialist
Emin Huseynov                    Project officer, implementation/coordination
Carlo Segni                      Banking sector
Rama Chandran                    Procurement
Hiran Herat                      Financial management/Accounting
Lynn Gross                       Task Team Assistant
Dilek Barlas                     Lawyer
Hannah Koilpillai                Disbursements
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
A. Project Implementation Plan
Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide memoireslBTORs:       Identification
Preparation
Appraisal
Procurement Capacity and Risk Assessment
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
C. Other
ABN Strategy for Payment System Reform
Technical specifications for ANB's core general ledger
*Including electronic files
- 38 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
AZERBAIJAN: Financial Sector Technical Assistance
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursenents'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frrn Rev'd
P008284       2000 IRRIGIDRAINAGE REHAB                              0.00      42.00                           0.00      37.70      -0.09      0.00
P057959       1999 EDUC REF                                          0.00       5.00                            0.00      3.11       2.69      0.00
P058969       1999 CLLT HERIrAGE PRSV                                000        7.50                           0.00       6.81       2.70      0.00
P085504       1999 RECNSTR PILOT (IDP)                               0.00      10.00                            0.00      9.17      -0.25      0.00
P035813       1999 AGRIC DEVT& CREDIT                                0.00      30.00                            0.00     26.53       4.87      0.00
P035770       1999 PILOT RECON                                       0.00      20.00                           0.00      1058        8.50      0.00
P055156       1998 URG ENV INVST                                     0.00      20.00                           0.00      17A2       1Z45       0.00
P008287       1997 GAS REHAB                                         0.00      20.20                            0.00      9.47      10.37     10.33
P040544       1997 FARM PRIV                                         0.00      14.70                            0.00      2.80       2.94      0.00
P008283       1996 IBTA                                              0.00      18.00                            0.22      2.55       5.25      0.00
P008288       1995 BAKU WS                                           0.00      61.00                            0.00      9.42      15.62      0.00
Total:       0.00     248.40                            0.22     135.55     68.04      10.33
- 39 -



AZERBAUJAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999              Amoco Caspian                30.20    0.00    0.00    9.47   30.20    0.00    0.00    9.47
1998              Azerb. JV Bank                0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1997198           Baku Coca Cola                5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Baku Hotel                    17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Early Oil Fin                 14.20    0.00    0.00    4.46   14.20    0.00    0.00    4.46
1999              Lukoil Overseas               17.76    0.00    0.00    5.57   17.76    0.00    0.00    5.57
1998              SEF Azdemiryol                0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              SEF Azerigaz                  0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              SEF Rabitabank                0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Turkish Petrol                11.99    0.00    0.00    3.76   11.99    0.00    0.00    3.76
1999              Unocal Chirag                 17.85    0.00    0.00    5.60   17.85    0.00    0.00    5.60
Total Portfolio:      115.28    1.00    0.00   28.86   115.28    1.00    0.00   28.86
Approvals Pending Conunitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001              Azer JV Increase                 0.00     0.00     60.00      0.00
Total Pending Comnitment:        0.00     0.00     60.00      0.00
-40 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
AZERBAIJANt Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central     Low-
Azerbaijan      Asia  Income        Development dlamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         8.0      475      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     460      2,150       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        3.7     1 022       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                        T
Population (%)                                          1.0       0.1       1.9
Labor force t%)                                         1.2       0.6       2.3      GNP                             Gross
per          .        ,        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   68
Urban population (% of total population)                51         67        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                17         22        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              10          8        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% ofpopulation)         ..         .        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     0          3        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  106        100        96            -Azerbaijan
Male                                                 108       101       102                   Low-income group
Female                                               105        99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                              ..       ..       4.2       4.0
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                     45.8      39.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                24.1      33.8                     T
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                       12.0      22.8
Gross national savingslGDP                                        8.1      10.3
Current account balancelGDP                                     -37.7     -27.6      Domestic
Interest paymentslGDP                                             0.2       0.2                                  Investment
Total debtGDP                                                    12.6      14.7      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                                        8.8       3.9
Present value of debtlGDP                                        13.0
Present value of debVexports                    -                51.8
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           3.2      10.0       7.4                       -Azerbaijan
GNP per capita                                -0.4      6.7      -3.6                            - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                11.1    -11.2       67.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          7s
Agriculture                                                      21.4      23.3
Industry                                                         42.6      35.4     s\
Manufacturing                                                   10.4       8.5     25
Services                                                         36.0      41.3
Private consumption                                              77.2      65.5    -25      94   SC   9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                     10.9      11.7                    GO           GDP
Imports of goods and services                                    58.0      50.6
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                             2.3       6.2      24.0     B
Industry                                               3.9       14.8       3.1
Manufacturing                                       -30.2     -20.7      -34.5    40
Services                                       ..      3.1        7.9       3.3
Private consumption                                   -0.7       21.0    -14.4       0                       97
General government consumption                         4.9        0.4       8.4
Gross domestic investment                             26.0       20.4     -11.9   .40
Imports ot goods and services                         16.3       21.4     -17.3                  Exports   .. Imports
Gross national product                                 0.5        7.7      -2.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 41 -



Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic pricesro
(% change)                                                                             .
Consumer prices                                                  -0.8     -8.9    400
Implicit GDP deflator                                            -6.9     -5.1    200
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                         94   95   96   97   go   99
Current revenue                                          .       17.0     19.8    -200
Current budget balance                                           -2.8     -2.1            -     GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -4.8     -7.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989        1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                              678     1,025    2,000
Crude oil from new fields                                       133      383
Petroleum products                                             393       321      ,.0 soo
Manufactures                                                     56      239
Total imports (cif)                                             1,793    1,476     1.*               **
Food                                                            175      208       500
Fuel and energy                                                 28        21
Capital goods                                                   791      627        0
93  94  99  96  97  9g o 9
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       120        79
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       100        96                 U E:pOrts    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                        120        83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989        1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsotgoodsandservices a1,010                                         1,282      o
Imports of goods and services                                  2,425     1,919          93    -
Resource balance                                               -1,415     -636    tra
Net income                                                      -203      -526
Net current transfers                                             40        56     20                 "       I
Current account balance                                        -1,578    -1.106    -30
Financing items (net)                                           1.505    1,246
Changes in net reserves                                           74      -139      40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       ..       623       546
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)                ..       ..   3,869.0   4,118.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             526       587
IBAD                                         ..       ..         0         0                    F10 G4
IDA                                                            160       199               E:27
Total debt service                                                92        51             0:96
BAD                                                              0         0                                    .199
IDA                                           .        .1                  1
Composition of net resource flows
Officiai grants                                                 29
Official creditors                                             -17        54
Private creditors                                                5        -4
Foreign direct investment                                    1.083       373
Portfolio equity                                                 0         0                C 251
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     40        60     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   45        61      B - IDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                             0         0     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       45        61
Interest payments                                                1         1
Net transfers                                                   44        60
Development Economics                                                                                                9112/00
- 42 -



