Report No. PID9743
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Financial Sector Technical (@)
Assistance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       AZPE70973
Borrower(s)                      AZERBAIJAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND AZERBAIJAN
NATIONAL BANK
AZERBAIJAN NATIONAL BANK, Project Management
Unit
Baku - 370070, 32 R. Behbudov Street,
Azerbaijan
Contact Person: Rustam Tahirov
Tel: 994 12 973 970
Fax: 994 12 973 970
Email: Tahirov.rustam@nba.az
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 2, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 3, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The banking sector of Azerbaijan is at a critical stage of its
development. Ten years after the establishment of the two-tier banking
system and eight years after creating independent financial institutions,
the results of continued poor governance and internal controls are clearly
evident: the banking sector is still extremely weak and plays a very
limited role in financing the real economy. The sector is relatively
small, with total assets of about US$880 million (26 percent of GDP) in
September 2000. Until early in 2000, four state-owned banks, AIB, PIB,
SvB and the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA), dominated the market.
The non-performing loans accounted for well over 90 percent of portfolios
of AIB and PIB and, in spite of consecutive recapitalizations, they
continued to run operating losses. In addition, the banking sector has
the following characteristics:until earlier this year, the payment and
settlement systems were rudimentary, with interbank payments carried out
primarily on a physical basis. The inefficiency of the payments system
did not provide the degree of confidence required to support the
development of the financial sector and constitutes an additional cost of
financing for the private sector. A Real Time Gross Settlement system
started operating in February 2001, with encouraging initial results.
This system handles large payments and action now needs to be focused on
the settlement of small value (retail) payments; the private commercial
banking network consists of about 60 banks, most of which are seriously
under-capitalized and play a limited role (less than ten percent of the
total sector);foreign banks have a limited presence, apart from a very
small subsidiary of HSBC, a joint-venture of IFC and a Turkish bank, and



some minor participations of Turkish and Iranian banks;banking regulation
and supervision are weak, rules are not clear or transparent and
enforcement is discretionary or non-existent;although an International
Accounting Standards (IAS)-based chart of accounts for banks was prepared
and introduced in early 2000, IAS-based national accounting standards have
not yet been completed.    The Government's strategy The Government and the
ANB, in close cooperation with both the Bank and the IMF, adopted, in late
1999, a comprehensive strategy for systemic banking sector reform. The
strategy is aimed at three broad areas: (a) a more effective approach to
restructuring and divestiture of the state-owned banks, (b) a more
systematic focus on problems in the private banking sector, and (c)
actions to identify more clearly and address weaknesses in the broad
infrastructure supporting banking activity. The main elements of this
strategy include: (a) effective closure of AIB and PIB through a limited
merger of the viable parts of AIB, SvB and PIB into a new bank; (b)
strengthening and development of the operational structure of the new bank
with a view to its eventual privatization; (c) work-out of the loan
portfolios of AIB, SvB and PIB, through the establishment of a loan
recovery mechanism, if deemed necessary; (d) restructuring, consolidation
and strengthening of the private commercial banks; (e) broadening of the
role of foreign investors as a source of capital, technology and know-how
transfer; (f) enhancing of the legal and regulatory framework, resources
and capacity for bank supervision and regulation; (g) strengthening of the
financial infrastructure (accounting, auditing, payments system) necessary
for supporting a sound, efficient banking system. The Government's
long-term goal is to have a sound, efficient private banking system, which
would support the needs of a functioning market economy.Recognizing that
past efforts to improve the performance of the state-owned banks had
failed and, even if additional recapitalization and operational
restructuring of AIB and PIB were made, there was no assurance of their
long-term viability, the Government recently accelerated implementation of
the above strategy and has achieved significant results. The BUSbank was
created in February 2000 from the merger of the viable parts of AIB, SvB
and PIB. As part of this process and consistent with the strategy, the
banking licenses of PIB and SvB were withdrawn in July 2000, the license
of AIB was limited and a new limited license issued to BUSbank. AIB's
limited license will be withdrawn by April 2001 (withdrawal of this
license is a condition of negotiations). BUSbank's license allows it only
to collect deposits, perform limited foreign exchange activities, invest
in government securities and perform cash payment services for the Social
Protection and Pension Funds and other budgetary entities. The terms of
the license further prohibit BUSbank from engaging in lending activities
for two years, so that it will, in effect, operate as a narrow bank.
Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance (MoF), as the sole owner of the
BUSbank, has issued bonds, for a total of AZM 52 billion, to meet BUSbank'
s minimum capital requirement according to the existing legislation,
although a further contribution may be needed to bring the bank into full
compliance with ANB's capital requirements. Over the next two years, the
operational structure of the BUSbank will be developed and an effective
lending capacity established to help strengthen the bank and improve its
efficiency, introduce competition into the banking sector, and create the
conditions for the eventual privatization of the bank through the sale of
a controlling share to a strategic investor. A Memorandum of
Understanding defining the activities of BUSbank has been prepared, in
cooperation with the World Bank and the IMF. Signature of this document
-2 -



by the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the ANB and the management of
BUSbank is expected to take place during negotiations. Efforts to
strengthen the BUSbank are expected to include the upgrading of its
internal management and operational systems, and further rationalization
to strengthen its operational structure. The eventual privatization of
the BUSbank will require additional planning and effort with emphasis on
avoiding a negative impact on depositors' confidence and the Government's
macroeconomic management policies and practices. The proposed project
would support the Government and BUSbank's management in carrying out this
program. Actions will also need to be initiated to carry out the
disposition and liquidation of the remaining financial and physical assets
of the merged banks. The Government is considering the establishment of a
loan recovery mechanism to undertake the aggressive collection of the bad
loans, with a view to maximizing net recoveries. However, at end-October
2000, the Government passed legislation on debt relief, under the terms of
which state enterprise debt incurred prior to October 1, 2000, could be
forgiven. This legislation could substantially reduce the magnitude of
the non-performing loans to be transferred to the loan recovery unit
although the full impact of its provisions has not yet been assessed.     To
this end, the Government intends to carry out a study to assess the
collectibility of the non-performing loan portfolios of AIB, PIB and SvB
and, based on the findings of the study and taking into account the impact
of the new legislation, will decide on the need for and the structure of
the mechanism to be created. The project would support this effort. To
help alleviate some of the cost and social impact of closing the AIB, the
Government is considering creating this unit within the corporate shell of
AIB and to use the facilities of the bank as needed for loan recovery.
For this purpose, the AIB would be provided with a special license (a
non-bank financial institution license). The proposed project would
provide the institutional, legal and operational support for the creation
and start up of this mechanism, which would have a limited life. The
Government's strategy also encompasses strengthening banking supervision
and regulations, improving the legal framework, and providing the
financial infrastructure, necessary for the development of private
banking. Some progress has been made in each of these areas. The IMF has
been providing extensive support to the ANB for off- and on-site
supervision, but further assistance is needed, particularly to improve ANB'
s on-site inspection capacity.    The proposed project would support the
strengthening of banking supervision. With regard to strengthening
financial infrastructure, including payments system, accounting and
audits, a new chart of accounts that conforms with International
Accounting Standards has been developed for the banking sector. In
addition, implementation (with support from the ongoing IDA-financed
Institution Building Technical Assistance Project - IBTA I) of a modern
payments system (Real Time Gross Settlement - RTGS) system and a core
general ledger system are underway. Substantial work remains to be done
to develop and introduce national accounting standards and procedures in
conformity with IAS so that the new chart of accounts can be effectively
implemented and transparency of the banking system improved, to complete
the payment system reform and to expand ANB's general ledger system. The
Government is also envisioning the development of a collateral registry
system to help improve effectiveness and cost efficiency in delivering
secured lending services to the private sector. The proposed project
would provide support for these activities.
- 3-



2. Objectives
Since 1996, the Government of Azerbaijan has been trying to implement a
strategy which includes the restructuring and divestiture of the
state-owned banks, as well as the development of financial sector
infrastructure and strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory
framework. Progress has been made in some areas of banking sector reform
since the two-tier banking system was created in 1992. The Azerbaijan
National Bank (ANB) has been proactive in the area of reform, has
undertaken its own restructuring, has strengthened its banking supervision
skills and is in the process of looking at the vulnerability of private
banks. An effort was made, with support from the IDA-financed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) and Institution Building Technical Assistance
Project (IBTA I), to restructure and turn around three state-owned banks
(Agroprom, Prominvest and Savings Bank). However, despite these efforts
Agroprom (AIB) and Prominvest (PIB) continued to run operating losses and
had little franchise value. They continued to suffer from poor
management, internal controls and governance and remained deeply insolvent
with bad loan portfolios. These problems were also endemic to many of the
private banks. Furthermore, significant weaknesses remained in the
financial sector infrastructure, legal framework supporting banking
activity and banking supervision. As a result, progress in the
development and improvement of financial services and financial
intermediation has been slow. By late 1999, the banking sector was
showing signs of significant stress, as revealed by widespread operational
losses, lack of liquidity and insufficiency of capital. The resulting low
level of confidence in banks was restricting their ability to attract the
savings of individuals and enterprises, as well as the provision of
lending, payment and other banking services to support economic growth.
The Government recognized that more drastic actions than previously
initiated were needed to turn around the financial sector. As a
consequence, since late 1999, the Government has intensified its efforts
to address the problems and has requested further support from the World
Bank and the IMF in this regard. In support of the Government's
intensified efforts, the Bank and the IMF jointly drafted a financial
sector strategy and discussed it with the Government. The Government has
already initiated actions to implement this strategy, including moving
ahead with a very difficult and politically sensitive decision to close
down AIB, PIB and the Savings Bank (SvB) and to create a new bank (the
United Universal Joint Stock Bank - BUSBank) from the good assets of the
three entities, primarily those of the SvB.The main objective of the
project is to provide technical assistance to the Government of Azerbaijan
to support further implementation of its financial sector development
strategy. This technical assistance will focus on: (i) bank restructuring
and divestiture; and (ii) enhancement of banking infrastructure and
banking supervision.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed project continues and expands the technical assistance
already provided to the Government through the IBTA project. The
Government, the ANB and other international donors look to the IDA and the
IMF to provide continued support to the Government to help sustain banking
sector development.
4. Description
The proposed project is divided into two main parts: (i) support to the
-4 -



Ministry of Finance to strengthen and prepare the BUSbank for eventual
privatization, and to establish a loan recovery mechanism; and (ii)
support to the ANB, particularly to strengthen banking supervision and to
strengthen banking sector infrastructure. It also includes assistance to
support project management and administration.
Ministry of Finance:
- Advisory services to the Ministry of Finance on banking restructuring
and privatization
- Advisory services for strengthening BUSbank and preparing it for
privatization
- Advisory services for the establishment and start up of a loan recovery
mechanism
Azerbaijan National Bank:
- Advisory services for senior management and IT
- Advisory services for strengthening banking supervision
- Support through advisory services and equipment for the development of
financial sector infrastructure, including accounting reform and
implementation of a small value payments system
Support for project administration and management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       6.27
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over about 4 years. A mid-term review
will be carried out by October 31, 2003.Project Coordination and
Implementation. The ANB will be responsible for overall project
coordination and administration. To handle the day-to-day project
management, administration and implementation activities, a Project
Management Unit (PMU) has been established in the ANB. The PMU will
report to and be under the general supervision of the Director of the
Foreign Relations Department of ANB. The PMU is staffed by two procurement
officers, one of whom will head the Unit, a financial management
specialist, from the Accounting Department of the ANB, and an
administrative assistant/office manager. The financial management
specialist will also be supported, on a part-time basis, by another
officer from the Accounting Department who will handle disbursements of
the project funds.    Additional support will be provided under the project
for procurement advisory services.Technical responsibility for the project
components will rest with the Ministry of Finance and the ANB, as
appropriate. The PMU will liaise closely with the various parties to
ensure that project activities are handled effectively, in a timely
fashion and in accordance with World Bank requirements, and that adequate
information is provided for reporting purposes. The proposed project will
provide funding, during the first year of implementation, to cover limited
incremental operating costs required for the establishment of the
financial management system and training for PMU staff in procurement,
project and financial management under World Bank-financed projects. All
other incremental operating costs, including office space, utilities,
office supplies, and communication costs will be covered by the ANB and
MoF. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible, from a technical point
of view, for the component related to the BUSbank and the Non-bank
Financial Institution (NBFI) (loan recovery mechanism). The MoF has
- 5 -



designated the Director of the Internal Debt Department as the main
counterpart for the project with responsibility for handling the
day-to-day implementation of issues relating to these MoF components.
This official will report directly to the Minister on project-related
issues and will liaise closely with the PMU to facilitate effective
project implementation and management.ANB will be responsible for the
financial and banking infrastructure component, including the development
and implementation of IAS compatible accounting standards for banks,
improving the payments system, augmenting the general ledger system and
assessing the needs for a collateral registry system, as well as for the
banking supervision component. Project management would also be the
overall responsibility of the ANB.Project Financial Management: A project
specific financial management system will be established at the PMU prior
to effectiveness of the proposed credit.    TOR for this assignment were
agreed with the PMU. The accounting system will be maintained in
accordance with international standards, based on principles of
double-entry bookkeeping. This system will be capable of providing
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures, including planning, internal controls, accounting and
financial reporting and audit arrangements relating to the project. The
project accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts, which has been
drawn up to accommodate the proposed project and to capture sources and
uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy
Project Management Reporting (PMR)-based reporting requirements. Cash
basis accounting will be applied. The proposed system will, in addition
to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures,
link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities
of the project. Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence
on the basis of traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments,
replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs and full
documentation). Once the PMU's capacity and experience has improved with
regard to internal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting,
the ANB/PMU, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on the timing and
transition to the use of the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes.
Internal Controls:    Operational procedures and guidelines for project
financial management are being documented in an Operational Manual, which
is being prepared by the PMU and which encompasses all levels of project
management and administration. The Manual will include financial
management procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and
auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting
and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and
formats of project management reports. Auditing Arrangements: An
independent accredited auditing firm will audit the accounts annually.
The auditors to be selected for the Project are required to be members of
the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Audited Project
Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report
six months after end of each year audited. The PMU will select an audit
firms, under TOR acceptable to IDA, prior to Credit effectiveness. The
cost of the audit will be financed from the proposed IDA Credit.
7. Sustainability
The objective of the financial sector reform is to establish a sound,
well-functioning and competitive banking system that can mobilize a rising
level of financial resources, efficiently service the credit needs of a
growing economy, and provide broadly accessible, efficient and secure
- 6-



payments services at both the wholesale and retail level. To achieve this
objective, the Government and the Azerbaijan National Bank have begun the
implementation of a reform program to realize their comprehensive strategy
for systemic bank restructuring and reform. These reforms are critical
for the long-term health and sustainability of the financial sector. In
addition, the IMF, in cooperation with the Bank, is also addressing
financial sector issues in its program, which would help achieve the
sustainability of the reforms supported by the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Technical assistance projects have a mixed performance record both within
the Bank Group and in the ECA Region. Experience, including that gained
from the implementation of the IBTA Project, has been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project. The main lessons learned and
actions taken are summarized below:(i) The main element of success in
technical assistance is the commitment and ownership of the relevant
stakeholder, at both the design and implementation stage. Experience
gained from the IBTA Project also suggests that slow implementation of
reform affects the development of the institutions supporting the reform
program. Preparation of the FSTA Project has proceeded only after the
strong commitment of both the highest levels of Government and the ANB was
clearly demonstrated and the actions required to implement the financial
sector reform strategy initiated. To reinforce this commitment, the Bank
plans to seek a letter from the Government outlining its plans and vision
for the development of the banking sector (see Section 4). This letter
could provide the basis for an exit mechanism if needed, in the event that
the Government does not follow through with the implementation of the
reform program. (ii) Earlier lessons point to the desirability of
retaining a degree of flexibility in the project to allow adjustments to
respond to changing priorities within the overall framework of the
operation. If the implementation period is lengthy, there is a risk that
individual priorities become less relevant. To maintain the desired
flexibility, activities for the first year of the project will be agreed
in detail, other activities will be refined as part of project
supervision.   To avoid a lengthy implementation period, the project is
designed to allow the program to be completed in about three years, with a
little more than one additional year to provide for implementation
delays. This contingency is realistic given the ambitiousness of the
reform program supported by the project and taking into account experience
from other operations which indicate that technical assistance programs
rarely proceed as quickly as expected.(iii) The IBTA Project supported
the implementation of a very broad agenda, across many institutions.
Performance of one institution could impact the overall project. The
proposed project, although ambitious, is limited to the financial sector.
Progress in other areas of public sector reform could benefit this
operation but the project does not depend on this and could, therefore,
proceed independently of this agenda. Experience with other projects
shows that restructuring of banks alone is not sufficient to support the
development of a well-functioning financial sector. Therefore, the scope
of the project focuses on different elements of the financial sector which
are interlinked. In addition, sound regulations and supervision, a good
supporting legal framework, adequate rules and practices on auditing and
accounting, as well as other elements of financial infrastructure, such as
a payments system, are also necessary requirement and are supported by
this project. (iv) Finally, the existence of adequate implementation
- 7-



capacity and management continuity are also necessary conditions.
Implementation will be closely monitored and performance measured against
concrete and specific indicators. Procurement and financial management
capacity are weak but resources are provided under the project to train
PMU staff and for procurement experts to provide guidance and to transfer
the needed knowledge and expertise to their Azeri counterparts.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No significant environmental issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rochelle Hilton
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2547
Fax: 202 522 0005
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 6, 2001.
- 8 -



