                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR0000314




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-35180)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.3 MILLION
                           (US$5.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                                   AZERBAIJAN

                                      FOR A

            FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                    May 30, 2007




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2007)
           Currency Unit = = New Azeri Manat (AZN)
                       AZN 1.00 = US$0.868
                        US$1.00 = AZN 1.15
        (As of January 1, 2006, the Azeri currency changed from
        AZM to AZN, at a conversion rate of AZM 5,000 = AZN 1)

                            FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 ­ December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIB         -      Agroprom Bank
APL         -      Adaptable Program Loan
APUS        -      Azerbaijan Utility Payment Collection System
AZM         -      Azeri Manats
AZN         -      New Azeri Manats
BUS Bank    -      United Universal Joint Stock Bank (subsequently
                   renamed Kapital Bank)
CAS         -      Country Assistance Strategy
CPC         -      Card Processing Center
CPS         -      Country Partnership Strategy
CRR         -      Credit Risk Registry
FSTA        -      Financial Sector Technical Assistance
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
IAS         -      International Accounting Standards
IBTA        -      Institution Building Technical Assistance
IDA         -      International Development Agency
IFRS               International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF         -      International Monetary Fund
IT          -      Information Technology
MoF         -      Ministry of Finance
NBA         -      National Bank of Azerbaijan
NPL         -      Non-Performing Loan
PIB         -      Prominvest Bank
ISR         -      Implementation Status Report
PMU         -      Project Management Unit
PSR         -      Project Status Report
RTGS        -      Real Time Gross Settlement
SAC         -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SvB         -      Savings Bank
TA          -      Technical Assistance
USAID       -      United States Agency for International Development



                    Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                  Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                   Sector Manager: Gerardo M. Corrochano
              Project Team Leader:    Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
                 ICR Team Leader:     Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic

                                              Azerbaijan
                    Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 28
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 34
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Financial Sector Technical
Country:                      Azerbaijan        Project Name:
                                                                    Assistance Project
Project ID:                   P070973           L/C/TF Number(s): IDA-35180
ICR Date:                     03/16/2007        ICR Type:           Core ICR
Lending Instrument:           TAL               Borrower:           AZERBAIJAN
Original Total Commitment: XDR 4.30M            Disbursed Amount: XDR 4.27M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: National Bank of Azerbaijan
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
     Process              Date              Process         Original Date      Actual Date
Concept Review:        11/28/2000      Effectiveness:        07/24/2002         07/24/2002
Appraisal:             03/05/2001      Restructuring(s):                        10/18/2002
Approval:              06/12/2001      Mid-term Review:                         10/15/2003
                                       Closing:              02/28/2006         10/01/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory      Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:       Satisfactory      Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:           Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance: Satisfactory          Overall Borrower
                                                Performance:               Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance         Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating
Potential Problem Project at any
                                    Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time:

Problem Project at any time:         No             Quality of Supervision (QSA): None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive Highly
status:                              Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                           56                 40
Central government administration                                 37                  0
Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement                7                60


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other financial and private sector development                   Primary           Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary           Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes Linn
Country Director:          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                 Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Gerardo M. Corrochano               Alexander E. Fleming
Project Team Leader:       Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic           Rochelle Hilton
ICR Team Leader:           Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
ICR Primary Author:        Rochelle Hilton



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project was to provide technical assistance to the Government
and the National Bank of Azerbaijan to support further implementation of the financial
sector development strategy. This technical assistance was to focus on: (i) banking
restructuring and divestiture; and (ii) enhancing financial sector infrastructure and
banking supervision.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                           Formally       Actual Value
   Indicator        Baseline Value      Original Target Values (from
                                             approval documents)       Revised Target      Achieved at
                                                                             Values        Completion

Indicator 1 :   Withdrawal of the banking licenses of AIB, in addition to PIB and SvB and
                finalization of their closure
Value
quantitative or PIB and SvB's           AIB's license withdrawn as a                    Achieved
Qualitative)    licenses withdrawn      condition of Negotiations

Date achieved 07/2000                                                                   4/2001
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved. The three state-owned banks were closed
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Enhancement of the operational structure of BUS Bank, leading to its eventual
                privatization.
                                        BUS Bank implements an

Value           BUS Bank created        agreed business strategy in                     Achieved. The

quantitative or from the viable parts   accordance with a                               bank is fully

Qualitative)    of PIB, AIB and SvB     Memorandum of                                   operational and
                                        Understanding agreed with                       financially stable
                                        MoF and NBA
Date achieved 02/2000                                                                   12/2004
Comments        100% achieved. The bank's profits have substantially increased since 2003. Decree
(incl. %        initiating the privatization process for Kapital Bank (formerly BUS Bank) issued in
achievement)    2/2007
Indicator 3 :   Enhancement of NBA supervisory capacity, particularly on-site inspection.
                NBA weak
Value           supervisory capacity.
quantitative or No prudential                                                           Achieved. Not

Qualitative)    reporting systems. No                                                   project funded

                on-site supervision.
Date achieved                                                                           ongoing
Comments
(incl. %        Assistance provided by USAID. FSAP findings in 2003 indicate that the NBA on-site

achievement)    inspections generally meet the BIS norms.

Indicator 4 :   Implementation of an efficient payments system.
                                        Operational small value                         Exceeded. BCSS
Value                                   payments system and                             fully operational
(quantitative orRTGS system came        framework established to                        by 12/2002. CPC
Qualitative)    on stream in 2/2001     support a card-based clearing                   started operations
                                        and settlement system                           at end 2004
Date achieved                                                                           12/2004
                100% achieved. Indicator exceeded. FSAP assessment confirmed that the RTGS and
Comments        the small value batch payment system meet BIS norms for systemically important
(incl. %        payment systems. In addition, a card clearing and settlement system (operational) and a
achievement)    study feasibility and technical specifications for a centralized system for the collection
                of public utility fees (completed) were added to the project.

Indicator 5 :  Introduction of IAS-based national accounting standards for commercial banks

Value                                 Financial reporting by

quantitative or                       commercial banks based on                    Achieved.
Qualitative)                          standards prescribed by NBA,
                                      compatible with IAS
Date achieved                                                                      03/31/2004

Comments       100% achieved. This was confirmed by the findings of Bank's ROSC on Accounting

(incl. %       and Auditing (3/2004). IFRS introduced in 2005 and 90% of banks trained. 18

achievement)   systemically important banks prepare IFRS financial statements audited in accordance
               with International Standards of Auditing


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally     Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from
                                              approval          Revised      Completion or Target

                                             documents)      Target Values            Years

               Not applicable. The project went to Board in 2001. Intermediate outcome indicators
Indicator 1:   were not required at that time.
Date achieved
Comments (incl. % achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/20/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/27/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     12/18/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    1.02
  5     02/25/2003       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 1.37
  6     04/02/2003       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 1.54
  7     04/30/2003       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 1.62
  8     10/29/2003       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 1.89
  9     05/20/2004       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 2.40
  10    12/02/2004       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 3.55
  11    03/10/2005       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 4.97
  12    06/13/2005       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 5.10
  13    08/29/2005       Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 5.13
  14    11/04/2005       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    5.13
  15    05/04/2006       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    5.26
  16    07/13/2006       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    5.50

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
  10/18/2002               HS     HS          0.00




I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Reforms in Azerbaijan started in 1992 with the creation of a two-tier banking system. In
September 200, the total assets of the banking sector were about US$880 million (26 percent of
GDP). Public confidence in the banking system was low. By early 2000s, ten years after the
establishment of the two-tier banking system and eight years after creating independent financial
institutions, the banking sector was still showing signs of stress, as revealed by widespread
operational losses, lack of liquidity and insufficiency of capital. In spite of efforts to restructure
and turn around the three large state-owned banks (Agroprom - AIB, Prominvest ­ PIB - and
Savings Bank -SvB), they remained deeply insolvent with bad loan portfolios, poor management
and lack of internal controls. The Government recognized that stronger actions were needed to
effectively address the issues in the banking sector and markets.

At the Government's request, the Bank and IMF jointly drafted a financial sector strategy (see
IMF-MAE/World Bank-ECSPF report entitled: "Azerbaijan Republic: A Comprehensive Strategy
for Systemic Bank Restructuring," January 2000). Key elements of the strategy included: (a)
effective closure of the three state-owned banks and creation of a new bank from their good
assets; (b) strengthening and development of the operational structure of the new bank with a
view to its eventual privatization; (c) establishment of a loan recovery mechanism to collect non-
performing assets of the three banks; (d) enhancing of the legal and regulatory framework,
resources and capacity for bank supervision and regulation; and (e) strengthening of the financial
infrastructure (accounting, auditing, payments system) necessary for supporting a sound, efficient
banking system. The long-term goal was to have a sound, efficient private banking system,
which would support the needs of a functioning market economy.

The Government adopted this strategy and promptly started implementation: (a) The three banks
were closed and, by February 2000, the United Universal Joint Stock Bank (BUS Bank) was
created with a limited license prohibiting lending for at least two years. The bank was to receive
technical assistance to help strengthen its institutional capacity and improve its efficiency, and to
create the conditions for its eventual privatization. A Memorandum of Understanding, defining
the activities of BUS Bank, was signed by the Minister of Finance, Governor of NBA and the
management of BUS Bank in April 2001; (b) Agrarcredit (a non-bank credit institution) was
established for collection of the bad loans of the merged banks, with a view to maximizing net
recoveries, and to handle, on an agency basis, some limited lending activities. However, at end-
October 2000, the Government passed legislation on debt relief, under the terms of which state
enterprise debt incurred prior to October 1, 2000, could be forgiven; (c) The IMF was providing
extensive support to the NBA to create the legal and regulatory framework for, and strengthen,
supervision, but much more needed to be done, particularly to improve NBA's on-site
supervision capacity; (d) A new chart of accounts conforming to International Accounting
Standards (IAS) had been developed for the banking sector. However, substantial work remained
to be done so that the new chart of accounts could be effectively implemented and transparency
of the banking system improved; and (e) In regard to the payment system infrastructure, the Real
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) supported by the IDA-financed IBTA I, became operational in
February 2001, but other key elements of the financial infrastructure were still lacking.

The Government and the NBA looked to the Bank and the IMF to provide continued support to
help with banking sector development. Furthermore, at the time of project appraisal, only limited



                                                  1

resources were available from the few other donors that were active in Azerbaijan. The Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (approved in 1999), supported the Government's development
agenda of restoring growth and alleviating poverty. The FSTA project was consistent with the
Government's strategy and supported one of the three priorities stated in the CAS, namely
promoting private sector growth as a means to reducing unemployment and poverty in a
sustainable manner. A well-functioning banking sector is essential for the private sector-led
growth, and the FSTA project was to help improve its capacity to efficiently mobilize resources
and provide better access to financial services and credit. The FSTA project significantly
expanded the technical assistance to the banking sector that started under the IBTA project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)The
main objective of the project was to provide technical assistance to the Government and the NBA
to support further implementation of its financial sector development strategy. This technical
assistance was focus on: (i) banking restructuring and divestiture; and (ii) enhancing financial
sector infrastructure and banking supervision.

The key indicators relating to the achievement of the project objectives included: withdrawal of
the banking licenses and finalization of the closure of the three failed state banks (AIB, PIB and
SvB); enhancement of the operational structure of BUS Bank, leading to its eventual
privatization; enhancement of NBA's supervisory capacity, particularly on-site inspection;
implementation of an efficient payments system; and introduction of IAS-based national
accounting standards for commercial banks.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
There were no revisions.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main primary beneficiaries were expected to be:
    · NBA, in particular through: (i) the improved payments systems infrastructure that would
        provide institutional benefits and help NBA more efficiently carry out its mandate to
        oversee payment system activities in Azerbaijan; (ii) improved accounting practices by
        commercial banks that would improve the quality of reporting and contributed to
        improved banking supervision; and (iii) enhanced banking supervision capacity1;
    · BUS Bank, through institutional development, capacity building and improved
        information technology systems; and
    · Government through: (i) improved collection of bad loans1; (ii) reduced fiscal cost by
        eliminating losses of three state-owned banks; and (iii) lower costs for the payment of
        salaries through use of electronic payment instruments.

In addition, commercial banks (including BUS Bank) were a primary target group through
development of accounting standards in accordance with IAS; more efficient and less expensive
payment services, better capacity for credit risk management and more efficient, less expensive
use of e-payment instruments through the CPC/MilliKard. Ultimately, the private sector would
benefit from the revisions to the project through better access to credit cards and to credit.




1Subsequently dropped from the project




                                                 2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Support to the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to implement its program for bank
restructuring and divestiture (US$1.96 million, of which US$1.73 million IDA). This included:
(a) advisory services to the MoF; (b) TA to BUS Bank to strengthen the bank, improve its
organization and operations and prepare the bank for eventual privatization, as well as training
and the provision of information technology for the general ledger system; and (c) assistance for
the establishment and operations of a loan recovery mechanism within Agrarcredit, should an
assessment of remaining outstanding bad loan portfolio (following the debt forgiveness) conclude
that such an activity was warranted.

Component 2: Support to the NBA, particularly to strengthen banking supervision and banking
infrastructure (US$3.97 million, of which US$3.40 million IDA). This included:

(a)   advisory services to NBA's top management to help implement its strategy to strengthen
      the central bank;
(b)   strengthening banking supervision, complementing assistance that was being provided by
      the IMF, through the provision of advisory services;
(c)   improving banking infrastructure through the provision of advisory services, hardware and
      software to:
      (i) finalize implementation of the payment system reform, in particular the establishment
            of a settlement and clearing system for small value, retail payments;
      (ii) expand NBA's general ledger system;
      (iii) complete implementation by the commercial banks of the new IAS-based national
            accounting standards and improve the transparency of the banking system; and
      (iv) carry out a needs assessment for, and design, a collateral registry system.

Component 3: Project management and administration (US$0.32 million, of which US$0.25
million IDA). This included a provision for procurement advisers, training for PMU staff,
financial management software and annual project audits. NBA agreed to cover other operating
costs of the PMU from its own budget.

All components directly related to the PDO. Component 1 would contribute directly to the
Government's efforts in relation to bank restructuring and divestiture. Component 2 would
contribute to the PDO by enhancing banking supervision and strengthening banking infrastructure
that is essential for the functioning of a sound, efficient banking system. Component 3 provided
the resources to facilitate smooth implementation of the project activities.

1.6 Revised Components
The project development objectives and description did not change, so no formal restructuring
requiring Board approval was necessary. Changes made to the project components, primarily
through the October 2002 revisions, reflected availability of donor funding and changes in the
environment. Project design was flexible, allowing for needed changes.

The following activities were dropped:
(a) At an early date, a review of the bad loan portfolio to be transferred to Agrarcredit (following
debt forgiveness) concluded that the chances of collection were slim. It was decided that external
technical assistance for the loan recovery mechanism was no longer warranted and that the
funding envisaged for this should be used for other project-related activities.
(b) High-level advisory services to the MoF and NBA also proved to be unnecessary. The
advisory services to the MoF related to bad loan recovery, and the need for such services



                                                  3

disappeared once the bad debt was forgiven. The needed high level advisory services to the NBA
were provided as part of the IMF technical assistance (except for the bank supervision function).
(c) Following project approval, a US policy change allowing USAID to provide assistance to
Azerbaijan.    Consequently, it was decided that USAID would provide support to NBA to
strengthen banking supervision and to design a collateral registry system.
(d) The total amount used for project administration and management was less than anticipated,
primarily because the procurement advisory services were not needed for the PMU.

As a result of these changes, and because the BCSS was implemented at a lower cost than
envisaged, the following project-related activities were added:

(a) Clearing and Settlement System for Credit Cards (CPC).               The NBA and the Banking
Association agreed to establish a new card processing system (in addition to Azericard) that
would provide equal access to all banks2 with the NBA providing the leadership to build the Card
Processing Center (CPC, also known as MilliKard). The objectives, well within the original
FSTA objectives, were to stimulate competition in banking services and reduce barriers for
smaller banks. It was also expected that a better credit card network would improve effectiveness
and reduce the cost of payments related to public administration (e.g., salaries, taxes) and social
security (e.g., pension payments). This sub-component included technical assistance to develop a
CPC concept and business plan, prepare technical specifications, and obtain the necessary
authorizations (e.g., Visa, Master Card).          It also included the necessary IT equipment and
software systems to start operations. In addition, funding was provided for automatic teller
machines (ATM) and point-of-sale (POS) terminals to increase the infrastructure for the effective
use of credit cards, and to facilitate the start of MilliKard operations. This was viewed as
essential to mitigate the risk that lack of cooperation between MilliKard and Azericard would
reduce the effectiveness of the CPC and existing ATM and POS infrastructure.

(b) Credit Risk Register (CRR). This was added as a joint project of the NBA and the Banking
Association. It was considered especially important in order to facilitate credit risk management,
encourage payment discipline and thus stimulate bank lending to small and new enterprises and
entrepreneurs. However, until the banks gained experience in exchanging and using credit
information/data, it was decided to establish a relatively simple system and limit access to banks
only. This sub-component included the development (by a local IT firm) of a customized system
that would operate on existing NBA hardware.

(c) Azerbaijan Payment Utility Service (APUS). The APUS system, also an important part of
payment systems infrastructure, was another new initiative of the NBA. The centralized system
for the collection public utilities fees was expected to: (i) create a platform to improve
effectiveness and reduce the cost of utility bill payments; (ii) create a more competitive market
for utility payment services; (iii) improve utilization of other elements of the payment
infrastructure. The FSTA Credit would finance consultancy services for a feasibility study,
APUS design and development of technical specifications to implement the system.3

(d) Kapital Bank (earlier BUS Bank). The sub-component for Kapital Bank was expanded to
include (in addition to the general ledger) automation of its key functional processes (including
risk management) and transaction processing systems. This sub-component was modified when



2The existing Azericard (owned by two banks) did not provide a level playing field that allowed the entire
banking system to enter into the credit card activity.
3The APUS was expected to be implemented under the Financial Services Development Project.


                                                      4

new management for the bank came on board in the summer of 2004, as the general ledger alone
did not include all that was needed for the bank to realize its new business orientation.

1.7 Other significant changes
Reallocation of IDA Proceeds. A reallocation of SDR 725,000 million from Category 2
(Consultants services and training), SDR 34,000 from Category 3 (Operating expenses) and SDR
350,000 from "Unallocated" was made to increase the amount available in the "Goods Category"
to SDR 3,209,500, to accommodate the revised project activities.

Closing Date Extension. The Closing Date was extended for about 7 months from February 28,
2006 to October 1, 2006. The extension was needed to complete installation of Kapital Bank's
banking software systems. The delay in this procurement and installation was due to the new
management's decision that the previously selected software did not fully meet bank needs. As a
result the original procurement was canceled, prior to contract signature, new technical
specifications were developed and a new procurement initiated. Other project activities were
implemented by the original closing date.

Funding. The original US dollar equivalent of the IDA Credit was US$6,250,000. Due to
depreciation of US dollar, the actual total amount was about US$6,650,000. This contributed to
the expansion of financial sector infrastructure component supported by the project. A small un-
disbursed amount (SDR 26,823) was cancelled on closure of the project account.                 This
cancellation was due to fluctuations of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Lessons learned from earlier projects (need for strong commitment and ownership of the relevant
stakeholders, desirability of retaining flexibility in the project, having a well defined focus, and
ensuring the existence of adequate implementation capacity) were taken into account in the
project design. Each of these factors made a contribution to the positive project outcome. The
PAD clearly identified these lessons. The assessment was realistic in expectations of what could
be achieved during the implementation period and correctly insisted on the Government taking
some important and critical decisions prior to negotiations of the FSTA Credit. Notably, these
included actions to close the three state-owned banks, transfer the non-performing loan (NPL)
portfolios to a loan recovery unit and create a new bank from the remaining assets of the original
three banks. Equally important was the fact that the Prime Minister sent a letter to the Bank, prior
to negotiations, confirming the Government's commitment to the implementation of the agreed
strategy. The project risks were adequately identified and the risk mitigation measures were
appropriate. The Prime Minister's letter provided the Bank with a potential exit mechanism in
the event of project failure.

Other key factors included:
    -   Active participation of the Government, NBA and BUS Bank in the design and
        preparation of the project. The IMF and the Bank, at the Government's request, took the
        lead in developing a clear strategy, on which the project was based. This provided a solid
        foundation for continued policy dialogue and actions, and had a major impact on the
        Government's readiness to move ahead with a challenging program.
    -   Strong championship for the project by the Governor of the NBA. He was proactive in
        making things happen for the project to succeed throughout the project cycle.




                                                  5

    -    Exceptionally close partnership of the IMF and Bank during project preparation, ensuring
         that these major donors "spoke with one voice".
    -    Recognition by beneficiaries, at an early stage, that they lacked adequate capacity to
         participate and deliver on specific items (such as developing technical specifications,
         preparing business plans or deciding on technical aspects) and needed technical
         assistance. The timely provision of such assistance (which by its nature is short-term and
         well focused) helped avoid delays and advanced implementation.

2.2 Implementation
The project was initially flagged at risk because effectiveness was delayed for over one year and
because of country considerations.        Although the project was flagged as being at risk,
implementation proceeded well throughout, without any major problems. Implementation started
even before effectiveness, as the NBA initiated a number of activities, including developing
technical specifications and starting the procurement process for the bulk payment system. Thus,
although disbursements started later than originally anticipated, they soon caught up with the
planned disbursement schedule and remained more or less in line throughout implementation.

Another issue at the start of implementation was the change in the needs and priorities for project
support, resulting primarily from: (a) the availability of donor funding from USAID for the
supervision-related TA; (b) the Government decision to forgive state-enterprise debt incurred
prior to October 2000; and (c) NBA's concern about monopolization of the credit-card market by
the International Bank of Azerbaijan. As reported in Section 1.6, changes were promptly made to
the project to address each of these issues.

Once the revisions to the project content were agreed in October 2002, the pace of
implementation accelerated, as confirmed by the October 2003 mid-term review. This review
concluded that implementation was going well and that the project would close on time, fully
meeting its development objectives. Indeed, the results show that the technical assistance was
effective and the counterparts motivated to learn. Procurement procedures were reasonably
efficient, and there were no problems with the quality of the selected goods or suppliers.
Installation of systems proceeded as planned. The beneficiaries developed business plans and
adequate governance structures to ensure that appropriate attention was paid to the commercial
aspects and sustainability of the respective systems.

Technical assistance to BUS Bank initially experienced some problems because of the lack of
competent counterparts (reportedly because of the inability to pay competitive salaries due to
government salary caps) resulting in an impaired absorption capacity, as well as limited
management capacity. Two important actions were taken to overcome these problems. First, the
NBA seconded its own staff to the bank to start implementation of the accounting and IT system
reforms. Second, in August 2004 a new management team was appointed. The new CEO, a
dynamic and experienced banker, took immediate action to improve the bank's operational and
financial performance.     He tried to understand and promptly implemented the consultants'
recommendations, improved the bank's network, upgraded the bank's head office facilities and
changed the name of the bank. The acquisition of the general ledger for the bank, which was at
the point of contracting, was delayed while the new CEO reviewed the overall situation. The
decision to delay this contract led to the acquisition of a more complete package covering not
only the general ledger, but also all functional systems and transaction processing systems. This
second procurement was successful and the system/software installation was completed in late
January 2007. Since the new management came on board, Kapital Bank's (previously BUS
Bank) performance has been impressive (see Section 3.2).



                                                  6

Towards the end of the implementation period, the NBA became increasingly concerned about
the lack of competition in the utility payment services market. It was agreed that funds from the
FSTA Credit could be used to identify most effective technical solutions to address these
concerns and provide an effective way to collect utility payments. This resulted in the concept
for the Azerbaijan Payment Utility Service (APUS) facility.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E was carried out as part of normal project supervision. In addition, as well as the NBA
monitoring systems in the context of banking supervision and oversight of the payments system,
the BCSS, CPC and CRR have detailed monitoring systems that can produce immediate data to
evaluate performance. The PSRs/ISRs reported in detail on progress and flagged issues that
required attention going forward.          Performance indicators were not quantified.       However,
progress against meeting the performance indicators was regularly tracked and reported by the
PMU and was closely monitored during project supervision and reflected in the PSRs/ISRs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
No safeguard issues were identified for this project. There were no special financial management,
procurement or disbursement requirements under the project. Fiduciary compliance was good
throughout the project and no issues were raised during implementation. No issues were raised in
project audit reports and financial management reports were produced regularly. No major
procurement issues arose during implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The sustainability of the reforms, the improved institutional capacity and better financial sector
infrastructure are unquestionable. The banking sector is predominantly private in that of the 44
active banks only two are majority state owned (Kapital Bank and International Bank of
Azerbaijan)4. The February 2007 Presidential Decree announced the start of Kapital Bank's
privatization.5 Taking into account the improved condition of the bank, as well as the increased
interest of foreign banks in Azerbaijan, prospects for the successful privatization of Kapital Bank
are promising. The condition of the banking sector has improved, with total assets at end 2006
growing to about US$4.35 billion (see Annex 3 for banking sector statistics). Notably, there has
been a dramatic drop in the percentage of NPLs (from 15.5 percent in 2003, to about 6 percent in
2005), largely as a result of the CRR. Azerbaijan now also has a well-functioning, efficient and
modern payments system, including an RTGS for large payments, a BCSS for small, bulk retail
payments and a CPC. The cost to the commercial banks of clearance and settlement has dropped
significantly in terms of both time and money.

The challenge ahead will be for the CPC/MilliKard to realize its business plan. Although 18
banks (over 90 percent of private banking in Azerbaijan) have an interest in the CPC/MilliKard,
they have been slow to transfer all of their credit card business to MilliKard due to the high
penalties imposed by Azericard, in an effort to prevent its member banks from shifting to the
CPC. On the positive side, the competition has already forced Azericard to improve its services
and substantially reduce its fees (by 25-40 percent, depending on the type of fee and service).




4However, International Bank of Azerbaijan, which is 51% state owned, still dominates banking markets,
as it accounted for about 45 percent of total assets (April 2007).
5This is to be realized by doubling the bank's capital through sale to eligible investors.


                                                       7

Going forward, the Financial Services Project (effective October 2005) focuses on further
improvements in the payment system, such as the infrastructure for electronic payments and
centralized utility payments, risk management related to payment transactions and the interface of
clearance and settlement systems with the securities markets. It also supports Azeri Post to
improve its capacity to safely and efficiently deliver financial services through postal offices in
small urban and rural areas. A Financial Sector Modernization Project (under preparation) will
focus more on non-bank financial sector needs aiming to improve infrastructure related to the
insurance and securities sector and help with improving the supervisory capacity for the insurance
industry. On the banking side, it would include the second phase of the CRR development, as
well as further strengthening of NBA, including operational risk management and creating of a
centralized and consistent financial databases and analytical tools needed for both monetary
policy and the NBA regulatory and supervisory functions.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project Objectives remain highly relevant. The PDO responded to the priority of the
Government and the NBA to reform the financial sector so it is better able to support private
sector growth, especially in the non-oil sectors and in rural areas. The Government's current
strategy continues to focus on promoting growth and development of the non-oil sector and of
areas outside the national capital. As reflected in the new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS),
approved in December 2006, the Government again recognizes that strengthening the financial
sector would be one of the key preconditions for improving access to financial services and credit
and thus for promoting private sector growth and employment. The changes introduced to the
project during implementation were fully consistent with these objectives and priorities,
particularly the priority to establish financial sector infrastructure that would provide the impetus
for the development of modern financial markets and support private sector growth.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The PDO to provide support to the Government for further implementation of its financial sector
development strategy was fully met.

Advisory services to Kapital Bank (formerly BUS Bank) strengthened its institutional capacity,
including risk management, and developed effective business strategies. It helped put in place
policies and procedures to improve operations and allow the bank to offer a broader set of
products and services to the private sector. This support was instrumental in enabling the bank to
commence lending activities. The provision of the banking software contributed to increasing the
efficiency of bank operations and management. Together, the project outputs have contributed to
the greatly improved performance of the bank (return on equity of 24 percent; return on assets of
3.8 percent in 2005; increase in total assets from AZN 31 million equivalent in 2001 to AZN 100
million in 2005 and AZN 146 million in 2006). They have also contributed to the recent decision
to start the process for its privatization. Selected indicators for Kapital Bank are shown below.




                                                   8

                     Kapital Bank: Performance Indicators (in AZN `000s)
                             2001         2002        2003         2004        2005       2006*
 Total Assets                 30,644      30,172       42,646      62,774    100,373    151,021
 Total Loans                       19         697      23,576      17,691      44,506     60,371
 Total Deposits               24,236      23,840       33,511      41,917      62,680     96,025
 Total Capital                 6.016        7,451       7,870      10,846      20,577     23,752
 Net Profit                      873        1,238         470       1,176       3,111      3,656
 Return on equity (%)           15.7         21.4         8.7        14.9        24.3      17.5
 Return on assets (%)             2.7         4.3         1.6          2.3        3.8        3.0
 Number of branches                            88                      89          88         88
 * unaudited
   Source: Kapital Bank

Establishment and operation of the BCSS, which started operations by end-2002, is an integral
part of a modern, cost effective payments system, which in turn is the foundation of financial
sector infrastructure and crucial for a well-functioning commercial banking system. The NBA's
auditors confirmed that the BCSS was satisfactory from the operational risk perspective. Of note
also, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), completed in late 2003, commented that
the BCSS was "a very effective system that fully met the Basel criteria for systemically important
payment systems." The BCSS has dramatically reduced the time needed for the batch clearing of
retail payments (see Section 3.3) and the volume of operations has been growing rapidly, as
shown below.

                                         BCSS Statistics
                  Year       # payments (thousands)        Volume (AZN millions)
                  2002                   20                               9
                  2003                  338                             278
                  2004                  538                             679
                  2005                  754                           1,214
                  2006                  843                           1,441

The CPC is also an integral part of the financial sector infrastructure. This system has led to the
introduction of the MilliKard and rapid expansion in the number of ATM and POS terminals (100
and 70, respectively, at end January 2007) in the country at a reasonable cost, providing equal
access to all banks. Thus this has had the direct outcome of improving the quality (efficiency)
and quantity of financial services offered by the banks.        Once the CPC infrastructure was
completed and all necessary authorizations were granted, the NBA sold it at a profit to an
association of smaller privately owned banks, which continue to operate the system. The sales
price more than covered NBA's total expenses. Systemic benefits started even before the CPC
became operational, as Azericard significantly reduced various applicable fees for card
processing services and liberalized entry. However, Azericard also established financial barriers
for banks to promptly leave Azericard. Nevertheless, the number of MilliKard participants is
steadily increasing and the competition is resulting in better service quality at a lower cost for
enterprises and the population.

The CRR, added to the project during the mid-term review and not explicitly reflected in the
performance indicators, became operational in May 2004. It too has contributed to the positive
outcome of the project. Although only a basic, simple system and while it took some time for
banks to learn how to utilize the system, the CRR has become one of the key elements in banks'
credit risk management practices in Azerbaijan (the NBA reports 500-600 inquiries per month



                                                 9

with an increasing trend)). It has had a direct impact on the quality of lending decisions by the
commercial banks and has been a major contributing factor to the improvement of the quality of
their loan portfolios (NPLs fell from over 15 percent at end 2003 to less than 7 percent by end
2005).

International Accounting Standards (IAS) Implementation in the Banking Sector was successfully
completed in April 2003. Commercial banks have been reporting in accordance with NBA
standards since end 2002. Project support helped banks implement the new accounting standards
(consistent with IAS) and establish adequate bookkeeping practices. The detailed review by the
Bank/IMF in the context of the FSAP and by the Bank while preparing the Report of Observance
of Standards and Codes (ROSC) for Accounting and Auditing indicated that bank accounting and
reporting standards in Azerbaijan are a simplified version of the IFRS, consistent with
international practice and significantly better than enterprise sector accounting. In addition to
their statutory financial statements based on national standards, 18 systemically important banks
prepare IFRS financial statements audited in accordance with ISA by local member firms of
international audit firm networks.

Although not directly financed from the project because funding from other donors (USAID),
NBA's supervision capacity has improved in line with the project objectives. FSAP findings
indicated that NBA on-site inspections generally met the BIS norms. NBA also has in place an
off-site reporting system that effectively monitors commercial bank performance.

3.3 Efficiency
Although a cost-benefit analysis cannot be done for a project of this nature, project preparation
and supervision costs were modest and benefits attributable to the project are concrete:
· The project has played a significant role in stimulating and assisting with banking sector
    reforms in Azerbaijan.
· The range and quality of banking services have significantly increased.
· The time needed for batch clearing of retail payments has been reduced from more than one
    week to less than two days. The cost of the service has also been reduced (NBA charges
    0.005 percent of the amount of each individual payment) and all commercial banks are
    members of the system.
· Prices for use of the MilliKard are significantly lower than the Azericard. Furthermore, the
    competition has caused Azericard to reduce its fees by 25-40 percent.
· Inquiries to the CRR are increasing (already at around 500-600 a month) and the CRR has
    had a direct impact on the reduction in the level of NPLs, as mentioned above.
· Kapital Bank's profitability has increased from AZN 1.2 billion in 2004 to AZN 3.1 billion in
    2005, with its return on assets increasing from 2.3 to 3.8 percent. This can be largely,
    although not totally, attributed to the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: SATISFACTORY

This rating takes into account the consistent relevancy of the project objectives, the achievement
of the PDO and the concrete benefits that have been realized in large part due to project outputs.
In addition, it recognizes that the vast majority of the project results were achieved within the
originally envisaged implementation period and in line with the original budgets. An overall
rating of "highly satisfactory" has not been given, taking into account two points: (i) the delay in
the privatization of Kapital Bank. The Presidential Decree announced the intended privatization
of 50 percent of the bank's ownership (through a capital increase of 100 percent). It remains to



                                                  10

be seen exactly when this will be realized and what the new ownership structure will look like.
(ii) The technical aspects of CPC went ahead without problems with immediate benefits in terms
of price reductions by Azericard. However, the number of card holders of MilliKard and the
number of banks using MilliKard is still less than anticipated. If as announced, two relatively
large banks cancel their Azericard membership by mid-2007 and other banks transfer by end
2007 (as intended), the number of cardholders would be about the same in the two organizations
and this should have a major positive benefit for the CPC/MilliKard. The planned activities
relating to the loan recovery unit or to establish the collateral registry were minor and their
omission did not detract from the overall positive project achievements.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project has had a major, positive impact on both institutional change and strengthening.
Kapital Bank has substantially improved its institutional capacity, with better risk management,
more efficient operations and a much broader range of products (including credit) and financial
services offered in more locations. Institutional capacity in NBA has also been strengthened in a
number of aspects. Its payment systems directorate has matured and become more effective. The
accounting function has also benefited from technical assistance to implement IAS and improve
general ledger functions. Involvement in procurement planning and competitive bidding
processes and financial management provided a positive spill-over, as the NBA has started to
apply the same processes in its own procurements and project management. Finally, banks have
improved their chart of accounts. As well as their accounting, book-keeping practices and
management information systems have improved.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Before the project, there was little communication or cooperation among the banks. The CPC has
motivated them to come together as a group.          18 leading banks have already taken over
ownership of the CPC and it is expected that the number of ATMs and services provided will
expand quickly. Also, the CRR was instrumental in encouraging/teaching the banks to share and
exchange data which has benefited their risk management processes. Banks are now interested in
broadening the system and exchanging more data, which should have an additional positive effect
on the banking market.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: LOW OR NEGLIGIBLE

The uncertainties and risks to the development outcome are low, given the positive effects of the
achievements to date and the broad and welcomed acceptance of the changes by the commercial
banks. The institutions and know-how are broadly in place to continue with the financial sector
reform program. This program is included in the Government's strategy for poverty reduction.
Additional support will be needed to help implement the next stages of the reform. The IDA-


                                                11

financed Financial Services Project continues this program and the planned Financial Services
Modernization Project will expand activities to the non-bank financial sector.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: SATISFACTORY

The project was based on solid sector work (see IMF/Bank Report dated January 2000). The
PAD is well-written and issues well described. Although the project agenda for financial sector
reform was challenging, the project design was realistic in its expectations of what could be
accomplished in a four-year period. The output indicators were generally appropriate and almost
all were achieved, with the exception of those relating to project activities that were either
cancelled or taken over by other donors.       However, indicators were qualitative rather than
quantitative. It would have been useful to have quantified targets so that achievements could be
more readily tracked over time. At the time this project was prepared, quantified targets were not
required (the project was prepared using the earlier logistical framework without baseline and
annual targets).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: SATISFACTORY

The Bank monitored project implementation and the procurement process through close and
regular supervision missions. During 2003 and 2004, the project benefited from frequent visits of
Bank experts, who were able to combine FSTA follow up activities with visits to the country for
other purposes (FSAP and preparation of the Financial Services Project). The Bank discussed
with the beneficiaries implementation plans and delays.        It was receptive to introducing
modifications to the project to meet changing circumstances and requirements. Procurement was
monitored closely. Procurement staff frequently joined supervision missions and, in addition to
reviewing procurement activities, provided practical and concrete advice to the PMU to help
enhance its procurement skills. This support, together with the good quality of the PMU staff,
eliminated the need for external procurement assistance, except to help with the technical
preparation of bidding documents for complex IT procurements. Financial management was also
monitored regularly and was primarily covered by locally based staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY

This rating takes into account the Bank's performance during all phases of the project. The team
developed excellent relationships with the Borrower, the beneficiaries and the implementing
agency and won their trust. It was receptive to their concerns and took actions promptly to
introduce needed changes.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY
The Government, at the highest level, was strongly committed to the project. The major problem
in regard to government performance was the one-year delay in Effectiveness. However, in spite



                                                12

of this delay, the MoF remained committed to the project throughout. It provided counterpart
funds in a timely manner and there were no delays in providing approvals for disbursements from
the Credit or for Withdrawal Applications. The project team had good communication with and
access to MoF officials as needed. An example of the continued Government commitment is its
recent decision to start privatization activities for Kapital Bank. The Borrower remained in
compliance with all legal covenants.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
The NBA was the main implementing agency. Its performance was exemplary throughout and its
Chairman remained the main champion of the project. NBA was strongly committed to the
project. It was dynamic, proactive and cooperative. Even in the face of the delayed effectiveness,
NBA started project activities at the earliest possible date, with the result that implementation
delays were minimal. In regard to financial sector infrastructure, NBA created a high level
committee, chaired by a Deputy Governor and including the Chief Accountant as well as the
Heads of the Banking Supervision, Payments System and the IT Departments. This committee
was active throughout the project to support the Program. When a problem was identified in BUS
Bank that would have reduced the effectiveness of its institutional development program, NBA
stepped in quickly with an innovative and effective solution.             To ensure that competent
counterparts were in place to implement BUS Bank's essential accounting and IT reform, the
NBA seconded its own staff for a limited time.

NBA also acted rapidly to create a Project Management Unit (PMU) and staffed it with
competent individuals. This PMU quickly developed the skills and expertise needed to fulfill all
of its obligations, in regard to its fiduciary responsibilities, progress monitoring and reporting as
well as liaison with both the Bank and project beneficiaries. Procurement staff sought guidance
from the Bank when required and rapidly developed the skills and knowledge needed to fulfill
their responsibilities so that the appointment of a procurement adviser was judged unnecessary.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, reflecting the performance of the
Government, the NBA and the PMU, their commitment to the project objectives, the quality of
project management and implementation capacity

6. Lessons Learned
Broad definition of the disbursement categories contributes to project flexibility and facilitates
the movement of funds without difficult formal reallocations. Excluding the "Unallocated" funds,
the FSTA project had only three disbursement categories. This breakdown facilitated the addition
of new activities (e.g., the banking transactions system for Kapital Bank), and the switching of
funds targeted for one activity to another (e.g., enabling funds earmarked for the Loan Recovery
Agency to be used for another purpose) without being subject to lengthy change procedures,
either in Azerbaijan or in the Bank.

Important synergies can be realized through good cooperation between the IMF and Bank.
During project preparation, Bank and IMF staff worked as one team ­ both in the elaboration of
the strategy and the design of the technical assistance needed to implement the strategy.
Throughout implementation, the IMF both continued to support the program and provided
advisory services (especially relating to the payments system architecture) that complemented the
IDA-funded assistance and Bank team. This close collaboration was an important factor in the



                                                  13

initial and sustained strong commitment to the banking sector reform strategy, as well as in the
successful outcome of the project.

In addition to the above, lessons learned from the project reinforce those learned from previous
projects that were taken into account in the preparation of this operation. Namely:

(i) The main element of success in technical assistance is the commitment and ownership of the
relevant stakeholder, at both the design and implementation stage. Experience gained from the
IBTA Project also suggested that slow implementation of reform affects the development of the
institutions supporting the reform program. Preparation of the FSTA Project proceeded only after
the strong commitment of both the highest levels of Government and the NBA was clearly
demonstrated and important actions taken to initiate the financial sector reform strategy. The
April 2001letter from the Prime Minister reinforced this commitment.

(ii) It is desirable to retain a degree of flexibility in the project to allow adjustments to respond
to changing priorities within the overall framework of the operation. If the implementation
period is lengthy, there is a risk that individual priorities become less relevant. To maintain the
desired flexibility, activities for the first year of the project were agreed in detail; other activities
were refined and changed as part of project supervision. The project was designed with a
contingency in the implementation period to cover possible delays.             This contingency was
realistic given the ambitiousness of the reform program and taking into account experience from
other operations which indicate that technical assistance programs rarely proceed as quickly as
expected.

(iii) The successful outcome of an operation is less likely if it depends on the implementation of a
very broad agenda across many institutions, since the performance of one institution could
impact the overall project. The FSTA Project, although ambitious, was limited to the financial
sector. Progress in other areas of public sector reform (supported by the IBTA II Project) could
have benefited this operation but it proceeded independently of this broader agenda. Experience
with other projects also showed that restructuring of banks alone is not sufficient to support the
development of a well-functioning financial sector. Therefore, the scope of the project focused
on different but interlinked elements of the financial sector. At the same time, rather than
involving many different institutions, it focused attention on two institutions (NBA and Kapital
Bank).

(iv) The existence of adequate implementation capacity and management continuity are
necessary conditions. Implementation was closely monitored and performance measured against
concrete and specific indicators. As the PMU staff had limited experience with Bank-financed
operations, resources were provided under the project to enhance management, procurement and
financial management capacity if needed. In the event, some training was provided but the
individuals were highly motivated and quickly developed the requisite skills. Their strong
performance greatly facilitated smooth implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(i)      Project Objective
The main objective of the project was to provide technical assistance to the Government of
Azerbaijan to support further implementation of its financial sector development strategy with the
focus on: (i) bank restructuring and divestiture; (ii) enhancement of banking infrastructure and
banking supervision; and (iii) improvement of the legal and regulatory framework.


                                                    14

The project was very successful in achieving its objective, as explained below. Some activities
were added during implementation to further enhance banking infrastructure. USAID was able to
provide expertise to help strengthen banking supervision, so this activity was not financed by the
Project Loan.

(ii)        Impact of the Project on Final Beneficiaries

Bank restructuring and divestiture
Enhancement of the operational structure of BUS Bank, leading to its eventual privatization.
This component included institutional development, capacity building and establishment of a
banking information system. Technical assistance for institutional development was conducted
by ING consulting company and was considered very useful. The outputs of the assignments
covered, but were not limited to, the following items: the new methodology for strategic and
operational planning, strategic plan for 2002-04, new organizational structure and business plan,
and different operational manuals and procedures in order to bring the activity of the main
departments of BUS Bank to internationally accepted standards and meet NBA' s regulatory and
prudential requirements. As a result, bank received a full lending license (initially it received
only a limited license) from NBA.

In the mid 2004, new management came to BUS Bank. It accelerated realization of the reform
process and bank's financial position has significantly improved. Also, the bank's name has been
changed to «Kapital Bank».

Supply and installation of the banking information system has further strengthened the Bank's
position and is likely to be a very important factor for potential investors during the forthcoming
privatization.

Generally, the realization of the FSTA project has greatly contributed to the development of the
Kapital Bank, led the bank to become stronger in the market, and paved the way for prospective
privatization of the Kapital Bank.

Enhancement of banking infrastructure and banking supervision and improvement of the
legal and regulatory framework

    a. Bulk Clearing and Settlement System (BCSS)

The purpose of this activity was to create a more efficient and reliable system for the clearance
and settlement of small (retail) payments. It also aimed to effectively broaden access to payment
services in areas out of Baku (especially rural areas), and effectively utilize the system for all
sorts of small payments, for example, utility bills. The following goals were defined for creating
the BCSS:
        To raise of the portion of non-cash settlements in order to mobilize bank deposits for
        efficiently directing investment to economical activities;
        To raise of the volume of collection public utility fees;
        To improve the process of giving pensions and social allowances;
        To reduce the role of the dollar in the economy;
        To create a competitive bank structure to allow on selecting reliable banks by the persons
        using settlement services.




                                                 15

The System corresponds to demands and recommendations for clearing systems issued by the
BIS as well as WB recommendations. The creation and operation of the system was estimated
highly by international financial institutions and some central banks are interested in the
experience of the NBA in this area.

In the frame of measures of integration of the government organizations to the settlement systems
infrastructure reflected in the "State program of Development of National Settlement System of
Azerbaijan Republic on 2005-2007", the improvement works was conducted in the BCSS and
changes have been done in the normative methodological base for integration of automated
information system of Head State Treasury to the National Settlement.

At present there are 48 participants (including all commercial banks, MF, Head State Treasury) in
the BCSS. During of the first quarter of 2007, 204,000 documents were processed and the value
of payments was 363 million AZN.

Generally, BCSS project has further strengthened Azerbaijan payment system architecture and
has been very important element for promoting non-cash payments, collection of utilities and also
achieving other pre-defined objectives. Creation of the BCSS has reduced the cost and time per
transaction.

    b. Card Clearing System (CCS)

The objectives of the establishment of a new CPC were to stimulate competition in the card
market and as a result reduce the cost of card services to the final users; develop cashless
payment; and improve the transparency of financial streams.          Establishment of new CPC
(MilliKart) has had a positive effect on the number of banks involved in the card market. At the
present 35 banks operate with cards, of which 11 are using the MilliKart.

Generally, establishment of the MilliKart has significantly influenced the development of card
business, reduced tariffs for card products, opened new markets to all banks (particularly small
banks) and thus increased competition, which leads to reducing cash payments and diversifying
payment channels.

    c. Credit Risk Registry (CRR)

The objective of this activity was to facilitate bank lending to small and new enterprises and
entrepreneurs by facilitating credit risk management and improving payment discipline. The CRR
involves the collection and dissemination of highly sensitive information. The Centralized Risk
Register became operational on 1 January, 2005

Generally, this activity was the next most successful one in financial sector infrastructure. It has
helped strengthen NBA's supervision capacity, also provides a valuable tool for monetary policy
implementation, and has increased the access to financial services of the population. It has helped
the commercial banks make more prudent lending decisions and contributed to an improvement
in the level of non-performing loans.

    d. Accounting reforms and Introduction of International Accounting Standards

This activity included the review of the normative legislation base and tax legislation to identify
shortcomings; propose recommendations to bring the legislation in compliance with International
Accounting Standards; develop the new chart of accounts and training; and assist banks with


                                                16

implementation of the new accounting standards and establishment of adequate book-keeping
practices.

The activity was successfully realized and banks received enough technical assistance (including
training) to permit them to complete the transition towards international accounting standards.

(iii)        Relationship with the World Bank

NBA had an excellent relationship with the World Bank and its project team all the time. The
Bank's task manager' and project leader's technical capacity, dedication and availability for daily
consultations (via E-Mail or telephone) as well as during supervision missions, were appreciated
and valuable for strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of the NBA.

(iv)         Benefits and target population

The project minimized the fiscal cost of the banking sector reform program. Also private sector
is developing due, in part, to a well-functioning, transparent and cost-efficient financial
environment. It should be emphasized especially broadening the access to payment services to
rural areas, in the regions.

(v)          Institutional and implementation arrangements/Sustainability

     The coordination and implementation was provided by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
established in the NBA with close cooperation of NBA, WB, and Ministry of Finance. The PMU
liaised closely with the WB to ensure that project activities were handled effectively.

(vi)         Overall conclusion

Although FSTA project was relatively small in terms of amount, it has greatly contributed to
strengthening financial sector infrastructure and improving the overall condition of the banking
sector. It is unlikely that such positive achievements would have resulted without the funding,
expertise, advice and guidance of the World Bank. More details on the activities realized by the
NBA under the Project are provided in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                                 17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


                  Components                          Appraisal Estimate     Actual     Percentage of
                                                           (US$ M)         (US$ M)        Appraisal
1. Banking Restructuring and Divestiture (MoF)                 1.96           2.06           105
    of which: (a) BUS Bank Advisory Services                                  0.64
                  Transactions systems/general
                ledger                                                        1.35

                  Annual bank audit                                           0.76
              (b) Loan recovery mechanism                                     0.00
2. Improving Banking Infrastructure and Banking
Supervision (NBA)                                              3.97           4.53           114

of which: (a) BCSS                                                            1.08
         (b) CPC, including ATMs and POS                                      2.88
         (c) CRR                                                              0.24
         (d) APUS System                                                      0.09
         (e) TA for IAS                                                       0.24
         (f) TA for banking supervision                                       0.00

3. Project Management and Administration                       0.32           0.06             19
                              Total Project Costs              6.25           6.65           106
Front-end Fee PPF                                              0.00           0.00
                       Total Financing Required                6.25           6.65           106

Note:   (i) Because of fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the SDR and US$, the final amount
exceeds the original amount in US$ equivalent. In SDR terms, total disbursements from the IDA Credit
were SDR 4.273 million, compared to the original Credit amount of SDR 4.3 million).
        (ii) Activities added during the course of implementation shown in italics.

(b) Financing

                                      Type of        Appraisal
       Source of Funds                                                Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing        Estimate
                                                      (US$ M)      Estimate (US$ M)        Appraisal

  Borrower                                            0.25               0.30                120
  International Development
  Association                                         5.40               5.65                105

  Local Sources of Borrowing
  Country (NBA)                                       0.60               0.70                117




                                                     18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Ratings for Achievement of Outputs
Component                  Rating      Output Indicators from        Status         Area of         Rating
                           of          PAD                                          impact
                           Outputs

Bank Restructuring
and Divestiture
1. BUS Bank/Kapital        S           -Transfer of selected assets  Completed      Inst. devt.     H
Bank                                   and liabilities to loan                      Financial       H
   (Advisory services;                 recovery unit
   IT -Bank operations                 -Implementation of agreed     Completed
   software; annual                    business strategy (including
   audit)                              lending)                      Started 2/2007
                                       -Initiation of privatization
                                       process

2. Loan Recovery           dropped                                   dropped        n/a
Mechanism

Strengthening Banking
Supervision and
Banking Infrastructure
1. Banking supervision     dropped     Covered by USAID                             n/a

2. Banking Infrastructure
a. IAS accounting          S           Establishment of national     Done           Sector policies SU
standards                              accounting standards                         Inst. devt.     SU
                                       compatible with IAS
                                       Passage of regulations        Done
                                       related to above
                                       Financial reporting by        Done
                                       commercial banks using
                                       prescribed standards
b. BCSS                    HS          Establishment of legal        Done           Inst. devt.,    H
                                       framework                                    financial       H
                                       Implementation of BCSS        Done
c. CPC                     S                                                        Inst. devt.     SU
                                                                                    financial       SU
d. CRR                     HS                                                       Inst. devt      H
                                                                                    Financial       SU
                                                                                    Private sector  SU
                                                                                    devt
f. APUS                    HS                                                       Inst. devt.     M
g. Collateral Registry     dropped                                   Dropped        n/a

Project Management         HS
and Administration
a. Project management                                                               Inst. devt.     SU
and administration
b. Project audits

HS = Highly satisfactory; S = Satisfactory;



                                                    19

H = High; SU = Substantial; M = Modest; n/a = not applicable

The following is a summary of the outputs by component, taking into account the revisions that
occurred during the course of implementation.

Component 1: Bank Restructuring and Divestiture

Advisory Services to BUS Bank (in 2005, the name was changed to Kapital Bank): The Credit
supported extensive assistance from a firm, including a resident advisor to the CEO of BUS Bank
for about 15 months, followed up by short-term visits, advisory services to the Chief Accountant,
services related to creating of the risk management function and lending function, reorganization
of the branch network and network management, and short-term advisors to various operating
units.   This institutional development included (i) development of a business strategy,
reorganization of the bank, introduction of a commercial division (sales, marketing) and
development/pilot implementation of the new branch network concept; (ii) establishment of
ALCO and development of other risk management policies and procedures, including credit risk,
that allowed the bank to receive a lending license; (iii) significant improvement of treasury
functions, including introduction of IFRS-based accounting and reporting; (iv) improvement of
the human resource management function, including introduction of performance based
incentives, centralization of certain functions and reduction of staff in branches. The guidance
provided to the bank was of a high standard and contributed to the continuing improved
performance of the bank.

Information technology: The Credit also supported the provision of information technology for
Kapital Bank, including advisory services to develop software specifications for the general
ledger, its key functional processes and transaction processing systems, and provision of the
banking software. Kapital Bank used its own resources to purchase hardware.

Annual financial audits of BUS Bank were also financed from the Credit. The 2005 audit shows
that, at end 2005, the bank's return on equity was over 20 percent and that its total assets had
increased to AZN 100 million.

Component 2: Strengthening Banking Supervision and Banking Infrastructure

Banking Supervision: This activity was dropped because donor funding from USAID became
available in 2001. USAID provided advisors on banking supervision (for both on and off-site),
who continued implementation of the program that was initiated with IMF assistance.

Banking Infrastructure: The IAS program supported by the FSTA was completed in April 2003.
It included a review of the normative legislation base and tax legislation in Azerbaijan to identify
areas of non-compliance; necessary amendments to bring the legislation in compliance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS); development of the new chart of accounts for banks;
and (custom-tailored) training of larger commercial banks on IAS principles, purposes and
systems to help banks to implement the new accounting standards and establish adequate book-
keeping practices. In addition to their statutory financial statements based on national standards,
18 systemically important banks prepare IFRS financial statements audited in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing (ISA) by local member firms of international audit firm
networks.




                                                20

The Bulk Clearing and Settlement System (BCSS) for low-value, retail payments became fully
operational by end 2002. Project funding was used to develop the legal framework and technical
specifications for the BCSS, as well as for the acquisition of the hardware and software for the
system.

The Card Processing Center (CPC) started operations at end 2004. This sub-component was not
part of the original design. The NBA and the Banking Association agreed to establish a new card
clearing system that would provide equal access to all banks with the NBA providing leadership
to build the card processing center (CPC, also known as MilliKard). The component included
technical assistance to develop a CPC concept and business plan, to prepare technical
specifications, to obtain the necessary authorizations (e.g., Visa, Master Card) and to start
operations. Since it started operations, 11 banks are using the CPC and NBA has sold the CPC to
18 banks who now continue to operate the system6. The FSTA also included financing of ATMs
and POS terminals in order to increase the infrastructure needed for the effective use of credit
cards, and to facilitate the start of MilliKard operations.

A Credit Risk Registry (CRR) (a joint project of the NBA and the Bankers' Association) started
operations in May 2004. Project funding was used to develop technical specifications for the
CRR and for the customization of the software for a simple system that could operate on existing
NBA hardware. The registry receives 500-600 inquiries per month. The registry may be
upgraded into a more sophisticated version under the Financial Sector Modernization project.

The FSTA also funded a feasibility study, and the design and development of technical
specifications for a utility service payment system (the Azerbaijan Utility Payment Collection
System ­ APUS). This was also added at the request of the NBA as part of the payments system
infrastructure. When implemented, it will provide a centralized system for the collection of
public utility fees.

Component 3: Project Administration and Management

A financial management system was provided with project funding. This software was used for
general accounting and reporting to the local authorities and to the Bank. The accounting books
and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial statements presented in US
Dollars and AZN.         The system was been customized to automatically generate Project
Management Reports that include the financial and procurement management report. Funding
was also provided for procurement and financial management training of PMU staff. Other
incremental operating costs were covered by NBA from its own resources. The Credit also
financed the cost of the project audits.




6 Only 11 banks are currently using the CPC as other banks have been slow to transfer all of their credit
card business to MilliKard because of the high penalties imposed by Azericard for shifting their business.




                                                   21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable, however, some general banking sector statistics are given below.

                               AZERBAIJAN BANKING SYSTEM
                           Table 1: SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS
                                             (In AZN millions)
                                                         31/12/2006  31/12/2005   31/12/2004
ASSETS
Cash, total                                                  214.94      109.70        98.18
Claims on NBA, total                                         594.30      286.20       302.95
Claims on other banks except loans                           245.90      234.87       177.19
Securities                                                   192.73       84.92        72.44
Net loans to banks                                            38.78       37.03        17.51
Loans and leasing extended to clients, total               2,271.67    1,371.61       852.69
(less) provisions                                            143.07      102.74        78.26
Net loans and leasing                                      2,128.60    1,268.87       774.43
Fixed assets                                                 186.14      138.34        94.43
Investments                                                   38.03       26.83        22.39
Other assets                                                 138.57       71.62        65.44
Total Assets                                               3,778.00    2,258.39     1,624.96


LIABILITIES
Call deposits                                              1,253.94      658.59       498.33
Time deposits of individuals                                 590.14      338.96       268.82
Time deposits of legal entities                              389.01      383.32       242.95
NBA's claims on bank, total                                   90.97       71.31        60.78
Claims of other banks                                        410.63      166.38        85.27
Claims of other financial institutions, total                234.67       86.53        40.66
Other debts                                                  107.60       88.07       120.67
Other Liabilities                                             97.77       77.54        39.91
Total liabilities                                          3,174.74    1,870.70     1,357.37
Equity capital, total                                        492.26      319.20       230.85
General reserves                                             111.00       68.49        36.74
Total capital                                                603.26      387.69       267.59
Total liabilities and capital                              3,778.00    2,258.39     1,624.96


Source: National Bank of Azerbaijan




                                                   22

                  Table 2: Selected Indicators of the Banking System, 2003-06
                                          In Percent
                                               Dec 2003    Dec 2004      Dec 2005 Dec 2006
Earnings and Profitability
Return on assets (ROA)                                1.8         1.9         1.9      1.3
 Private banks                                        2.4         1.0         2.5      1.5
 Public banks                                         1.4         2.6         1.3      1.9
Return on equity (ROE)                               13.7       12.9         13.2      9.9
 Private banks                                        9.7         3.9        10.6      5.8
 Public banks                                        30.5       39.1         20.7     21.0
Interest income to non interest income               92.8      125.5        188.0   209.3
 Private banks                                      124.9      168.6        251.9   266.9
 Public banks                                        70.0       93.2        142.3   160.4
Liquidity
Liquid assets to total assets                        30.5       31.8         25.3     24.9
 Private banks                                       27.3       27.1         21.0    17.3
 Public banks                                        32.9       35.6         28.9     32.3
Total (non-interbank) loans to deposits              88.4       84.9         99.3   101.7
 Private banks                                      130.0      131.5        134.6   137.3
 Public banks                                        68.5       63.8         81.5     78.7
Capital adequacy
Capital to risk-weighted assets                      10.9       19.9         20.7     18.7
 Private banks                                       29.9       30.0         29.3    24.0
 Public banks                                         1.6         8.8        10.8     11.7
Capital (net worth) to assets                        11.1       11.9         11.9     11.1
 Private banks                                       21.3       22.2         20.7    17.2
 Public banks                                         3.1         3.8         4.8      5.3
Asset composition and quality
NPLs to total gross loans                            15.1         9.5         6.7      6.6
 Private banks                                       14.0         6.4         4.2      4.0
 Public banks                                        16.1       12.4          8.8      9.5
Memorandum items
Private banks' share of total assets                 43.8       43.9         44.9    49.0
Public banks share of total assets                   56.2       56.1         55.1    51.0
Number of banks                                                                        43
Source: National Bank of Azerbaijan




                                             23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names                      Title                Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rochelle Hilton      Sr.Operations Officer      ECSPF             TTL

Tunc Uyanik          Lead Financial Sector
                     Specialist                  ECSPF            Banking sector specialist

Carlo Segni          Consultant                  ECSPF            Banking sector
Emin Huseynov        Project Officer             ECCAZ            Project officer
Rama Chandra         Sr Procurement Spec.        ECSPE            Procurement

Hiran Heart          Sr Financial Management
                     Specialist                  ECSPF            Financial management

Dilek Barlas         Legal Counsel               LEGPS            Legal
Hannah Koilpillai    Sr. Finance Officer        LOAGI             Disbursements
Robert Keppler       Lead Payments Systems Spec. FSD              Payments Systems
Lynn Gross           Team Assistant              ECSPF            Team assistant

Supervision/ICR
Sonia Brajovic-      Lead Financial Sector
Bratanovic           Specialist                  ECSPF            TTL

Rochelle Hilton      Sr.Operations Officer      ECSPF             TTL
Junko Funahashi      Legal Counsel               LEGPS            Legal
Jasna Mestnik        Legal Counsel               LEGPS            Legal
Robert Keppler       Lead Payments Systems Spec. FSD              Payments Systems
Emin Huseynov        Project Officer             ECCAZ            Project officer
Elmas Arisoy         Sr Procurement Spec.       EAPCO             Procurement

Ida N. Muhoho        Sr Financial Management
                     Specialist                  ECSPS            Financial management

Anna L Wielogorska Sr Procurement Spec.          ECSPS            Procurement
                     Sr. Finance Officer        LOAG1             Disbursements
Lynn Gross           Team Assistant              ECSPF            Team assistant


b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY01                                         36                 190.40
                    FY02                                          1                   2.47
                    FY03                                                              0.00
                    FY04                                                              0.01
                    FY05                                                              0.00
                    FY06                                                              0.00
                    FY07                                                              0.00
                                        Total:                   37                 192.88



                                            24

Supervision/ICR
                FY01                      0.68
                FY02              14     97.98
                FY03              18    102.82
                FY04              15     86.01
                FY05              19     96.61
                FY06              15     87.16
                FY07               6     42.01
                        Total:    87    513.27




                            25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                        27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The objective of the Project is to provide technical assistance to the Government of Azerbaijan to
support further implementation of its financial sector development strategy. The Project supported
the nationwide development of: (i) enhancing banking infrastructure and banking supervision; and
(ii) bank restructuring and divestiture, including to strengthen and prepare the BUS Bank for its
eventual privatisation; and to establish a loan recovery mechanism.

The following comments relate to the NBA component of the Project:

                     1. Establishment of Card Processing centre (MilliKart)

                                             Milestones
Authorized capital of MilliKart: 4 000 000 manat; established by 18 banks: 14 July 2006. Cost of
share: 1000 manat. Registered by Ministry of Justice: 11 September 2006; started activity: 2
October 2006. Contract between MilliKart and NBA signed: 2 October, according to which all
software, hardware and other assets owned by NBA were sold for 3 500 000 manat. Of this,
1 680 000 manat is a loan of NBA to banks for 3 years.

Member banks: AtaBank OJSC; Azerdemiryolbank JSB; Azer-Turk Bank OJSC; Bank of Baku
OJSC; CBank OJSC; Debut JSCB; Amrahbank OJSC; Xalq Bank OJSC; KredoBank OJSC;
Micro Finance Bank of Azerbaijan CJSB; Parabank JSCB; Rabitabank JSCB; Respublika JSCB;
Bank Standard CB; Technikabank OJSC; Turanbank OJSC; Unibank CB OJSC; Zaminbank
OJSC

                                            Governance
The major decision maker is MilliKart's shareholders meeting. 7 Members of Board of directors
elected from the representatives of shareholders banks for 3 years. Chairman of the Board of
Directors rotated every year and elected from the Board members by the shareholders meeting.
Executive director elected by the shareholders meeting and reports directly to Board of Directors.

                                   Market share at End 2006
                                                   Overall card market       MilliKart Share
Number of banks (working with cards)                              35                     11
Total number of cards                                      1 500 000                44 000
Number of social cards (pension, social                    1 000 000
benefits, etc.) issued by IBA and Kapitalbank
Number of ATMs                                                 1073                     100
Number of POS                                                  2053                      70

                                                Plans
Five MilliKart banks have already received VISA and/or MasterCard certification. Migration of 3
major banks is planned for 2007. In 2007, the number of banks is expected to increase to15, total
cards to 120 000, ATMs to 200 and POS to 600.




                                                  28

                    Comparison of MilliKart and Azericard service fees

                 Service                   MilliKart      Azericard before         Azericard after
                                                        MilliKart established    MilliKart established
Processing of authorization request from   0.05        0.25% of the             0.15% of the
ATM                                        manat       authorization amount     authorization amount
Processing of authorization request from   0.05        1% of the authorization  0.5-0.8% of the
POS                                        manat       amount                   authorization amount
Maintenance of card accounts               0.5 manat   $1                       $0.8
Average price for cards personalization    $3.85       $15                      $10.75


Implementation of IP network for connection of ATMs by MilliKart: average cost of connection
decreased to $50 per month. Average cost of connection in Azericard is $100. Azericard plans to
migrate to IP infrastructure only in 2008.

The main objective of MilliKart was to make the card market competitive, decrease the cost of
access to card payments for end users and increase the number and volume of non-cash payments
in the country. As can be seen from the above figures, establishment of MilliKart has made the
market more competitive. Banks can decide which processing center to use; the cost of services
decreased both in MilliKart and Azericard. Banks and cardholders benefit from lower costs; and,
as shown below, the number and volume of transactions continually increase.

                                    Growth of Card Transactions
                                          End 2005                             End 2006
                               Number         Transactions          Number           Transactions
                                         Number Amount (AZN)                   Number    Amount (AZN)

 Payment cards issued           837 988 3 191 811   169 219 852      1 542 135 6 038 457      449 743 223

    "VISA"                      642 215     2 398
                                              142   45 962 267       1 129 903 4 410 161      309 272 284

    "MasterCard"                189 476   776 440   123 171 657        403 750 1 595 011    136 095 3658

    "American Express"                16      159        26 884             22         0        394 9700

    "Diners club"                      0        0             0             11         0               0

    Domestic                       6281    17 070        59 045          8 449    33285        3 980 605

    Other                              0        0             0              0         0               0
    Number of                                                                         X                X
    cardholders                 657 062        X              X      1 497 021

    Number of ATMs                   873       X              X          1 073        X                X

    Number of POS                    987       X              X          2 053        X                X




                                                29

                               MilliKart statistics for January 2007
     BANK                         Number of Cards    Number of    Number of POS-     Number of card
                                                     ATM          terminals          transactions

1    UNIBANK                      20338              29           16                 26789
2    AZERDEMIRYOLBANK             15170              37           25                 19803
3    Az. Industrial Bank          3893               3            0                  3451
4    ZAMIN BANK                   1210               9            7                  2005
5    MFBA                         2523               10           11                 3124
6    AZER-TURK-BANK               343                2            0                  632
7    DEBUT                        313                5            9                  250
8    ATLANT                       99                 3            0                  100
9    AF-BANK                      51                 1            2                  120
10   EVROBANK                     45                 0            0                  25
11   PARABANK                     50                 1            0                  53
     Total                        44035              100          70                 56352


       2. Module of "Complete Transition of the Azerbaijan Banking System towards
                               International Accounting Standards"

From July 18, 2002 to March 28, 2003 with the support of the World Bank, National Bank of
Azerbaijan (NBA) together with PricewaterhouseCoopers realized Module of "Complete
Transition of the Azerbaijan Banking System towards International Accounting Standards" in the
frame of the Development Strategy of the Banking System. Thus, first, the current normative-
methodology base and tax legislative was analyzed, compared with the demands of International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and Comparison Schedule prepared by the Accounting Department
of NBA for the purpose of completing transition of the accounting system towards IAS.

As a result of work done, directions on realizing the "Module" were determined and Technical
Conditions prepared. According to the Technical Conditions works were to be realized in two
stages. At the first stage, current normative-methodology basis, tax and other legislative acts were
analyzed and it was intended to determine global problems for transition towards IAS and solving
directions. As a result, the Measures Plan and a training program were prepared. At the second
stage, the shortcomings and specific problems were determined through a diagnostic analysis
program in commercial banks concerning transition towards IAS, with a view to solving methods
and conducting training for realizing the Measures Plan.

An International Bid was announced according to the demands determined by department for
realizing the "Module" and according to WB procedures. Three major international audit
companies participated in the Bid. The best technical and financial proposals were presented by
"PricewaterhouseCoopers" and this company won the Bid.

During the realizing of the "Module", the Comparison Schedule, reflecting of comparison the
current normative-methodology base with IAS was improved and in order to ensure transition of
the banking system towards IAS with needed normative-methodology base, the 21 accounting
rules of the project were prepared according to the IAS. Training and seminars on the use of each
accounting rule were conducted for leaders and chief accountants of the banks, as well as for
NBA employees. IAS principles and tasks of planning the accounting system according



                                                 30

to IAS and solving of problems in this field were highlighted in these seminars and participants
were certified.

         Emphasis was made on separating tax accounting from common accounting, including
implementation of the following measures:
  - Training was conducted for all commercial banks on the necessity and realizing methods of
    separating tax accounting from common accounting on 16 January, 2003;
  - As a normative instruction the corresponding letter No 04-28/28, dd. 15 January, 2003, and
    the letter No 04-28/41, dd. 23 January, 2003 connected with the separating of tax accounting
    from common accounting was prepared and submitted to the banks;
  - The corresponding tax law was analyzed in the commercial banks and an appropriate
    recommendation was prepared.
As a result all banks were able to prepare financial reports in accordance with IAS. The last
Presentation dedicated to measures on transition of the Azerbaijan Banking System towards IAS
was held on 28 March, 2003, with the participation bank leaders. All the measures in the
framework of project were completed.

                                   3. Centralized Credit Register

Added to the project during implementation. To establish an Azerbaijan Centralized Credit
Register (ACCR) in the frame of realization of Strategic Plan of NBA, a Project Group was
created in 2002 and the Action Program of the Group was approved.

A Bid Commission was created on 4 November, 2002 to select the company to render technical
assistance on realization of the Project in accordance with the 8 February, 2002 Direction No 10
of the Board of the NBA. The "Norway Register Development" was selected by the Bid
Commission and the corresponding Agreement on 10 January, 2003.            In addition, another Bid
was announced connected with the selecting of a company to prepare the technical design of the
register. The company "R.I.S.K" won this Bid. The corresponding agreement in the amount of
US$198,538 between "R.I.S.K" and NBA was signed on 10 September, 2003.

According to the Contract, the following modules were prepared and tested by "R.I.S.K": (i)
Loading of information; (ii) Report about borrower; (iii) Report for demand; (iv) Summary
information; (v) Internal reports; (vi) Reminding of banks; (vii) Complaints; (viii) Changing of
bankruptcy status; (ix) Correction to historical information; (x) Opening-closing of periods; (xi)
Currency; (xii) Regulation; (xiii) System tables; and (xiv) Authority of users.

The Centralized Credit Register was brought into use on 1 January, 2005.

  4. Establishment of the bulking-clearing and settlement system (BCSS) for small value
                                              payments

The purpose of the establishment of a bulking-clearing and settlement system for small value
under the "Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project" came from the necessity of realization
of raising the efficiency and quality of the finance services. Creation of the BCSS was expected
to: (i) raise the portion of the non-cash settlement in order to mobilize bank deposits for
efficiently directing investment to economical activities; (ii) raise the volume of collection fees
by public utility entities; (iii) improve the process of giving pensions and social allowances; (iv)
diminish the role of the dollar in the economy; and (v) create a competitive bank structure
through more reliable settlement services.



                                                  31

In accordance with the strategy approved by the National Settlement Council of the NBA in 2001,
the following work was carried out to create the BCSS, guaranteeing the safety of settlements,
suitable to modern standards, working on real time regime:
·        Technical Conditions were prepared with assistance of the international expert-adviser.
On the basis of this, the international tender was held, and the resulting contract was concluded
between "Hewlett Packard" of the USA and NBA on 28 March, 2002. The system became
operational on December 2, 2002;
·        The normative-legal base regulating the system was created at the same time;
·        The connected structures and organizations were provided corresponding training and
information on working principles of the system, and users have been supplied with the software
free of charge by the NBA.
·        BCSS is working through the National Communication Line created on the basis of
speedy and modern fiber net. The participants of the system are supplied with cheap and suitable
services in this field.
·        To ensure the safe and uninterrupted activity of the BCSS, the Reserve Centre was
established in Sumgait.
·        Establishment of the System has been based on most modern technology. The software
and system have been guided by International standards on settlements systems.
·        Project was managed by the working group formed by corresponding specialists of the
NBA with close cooperation of commercial banks, Ministry of Finance and other connected
institutions.
·        The System corresponds to demands and recommendations for clearing systems of the
ISB and WB recommendations. The creating and applying of the system was highly estimated by
international financial institutions and some central banks have been interested in the experience
of the NBA in this area.
·        In the frame of measures to integrate government organizations in the settlement systems
infrastructure in accordance with the "State program of Development of National Settlement
System of Azerbaijan Republic on 2005-2007", improvement were made to the BCSS and
changes have been done in the normative methodological base for integration of automated
information system of Head State Treasury to the National Settlement.
·        At present there are 48 participants (including all commercial banks, MF, Head State
Treasury) of the BCSS. The number of documents processed in the BCSS during of the first
quarter of 2007 was 204,000 and value of payments was 363,000,000 AZN.




                                                32

 5. Establishment of the Centralized Information System for Public utilities fee collection

Support to develop the concept for a Centralized Information System was added to the project
during implementation. The Centralized Information System is to be established with a view to
increasing the involvement of the population and economy subjects in opportunities of the
National Settlement System reflected in the "State program of Development of National
Settlement System of Azerbaijan Republic on 2005-2007." When completed, it would provide
the technical integration in the National Settlement infrastructure of public utility service units as
well as government organizations making payments on tax, customs, pension and other social
fees.

Connected with realization of this measure, for more efficient and effective usage of public utility
service entities, the National Bank developed the concept, with the support of experienced
international consultants (financed from the FSTA Project) for creating a Centralized Information
System for increasing of the collection level of public utility fee, involving financial turnover to
the bank system and to increase the transparency in this field. This support included the
development of the working principles and Business Plan of the System to be created.

According to this Concept, the centralized information base would be created on the basis of
single coding of subscribers; public utility entities would be connected with the information
bases; and each subscriber would be able to get information on his debt and make payments by
cash or non-cash payment tools at the nearest bank or post office. At the same time, customers
would be able to get information on or pay their public utility fee using Internet Banking services.

Support for creation and implementation of the system is under discussion with the World Bank
and could be included in a future Bank-funded project.




                                                33

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                        34

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents:
Project Concept Note and Review Meeting Minutes
Project Appraisal Document
Development Credit Agreement
Project Status Reports and Project Implementation Reports

Mission documents:
Aide-memoires
Back-to-Office Reports

Country Assistance Strategy (1999 and 2003)
Country Partnership Strategy (2006)

Letter from Prime Minister dated April 20, 2001

IMF/World Bank Report: Azerbaijan Republic: A Comprehensive Strategy for Systemic Bank
Restructuring (January 2000)

ING Final Report: Advisory Services for BUS Bank (December 2003)

BUS Bank/Kapital Bank audit reports

FSAP (FSA)

ROSC on Accounting and Auditing




                                              35

