                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR3039



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-91919)



                                      ON A

                                  GEF GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.4 MILLION

                                       TO

                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                     FOR A

           FOREST AND MOUNTAIN PROTECTED AREAS PROJECT



                                  April 25, 2014




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit (ECSSD)
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2013)

                  Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
                           KM 1.00 = US$ 0.7034
                        US$ 1.00 = KM 1.4216 KM

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BiH       Bosnia and Herzegovina
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EU        European Union
FBiH      Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FDCP      Forest Development and Conservation Project
FM        Financial Management
FMPAP     Forest and Mountain Protected Areas Project
FR        Forest Reserve
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEO       Global Environmental Objective
GIS       Geographical Information System
HCVF      High Conservation Value Forests
HEP       Hydro-electric Power
IBTV      NP ‘Igman- Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica’
IPARD     Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Rural Development
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IUCN      International Union for Conservation of Nature
KM        Konvertible Marka
MET       FBiH Ministry of Environment and Tourism
MSPCEE    RS Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NBSAP     National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
NP        National Park
NTFP      Non-timber Forest Products
OP        Operational Policy
PA        Protected Area
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAME TT   Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool
PCCV      NP ‘Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran’
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMU       Project Management Unit
RS     Republika Srpska
UNEP   United Nations Environment Program




                   Vice President:   Laura Tuck
                 Country Director:   Ellen A.Goldstein
                  Sector Manager:    Kulsum Ahmed
             Project Team Leader:    Nathalie Johnson
                ICR Team Leader:     Solvita Klapare
                                     Bosnia and Herzegovina
                           Forest and Mountain Protected Areas Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 43
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 70
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 71
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           FOREST AND
                        Bosnia and                                         MOUNTAIN
Country:                                         Project Name:
                        Herzegovina                                        PROTECTED AREAS
                                                                           PROJECT
Project ID:             P087094                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-91919
ICR Date:               04/28/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           BOSNIA AND
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        USD 3.40M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.38M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 3.38M
Environmental Category: B                        Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 FBiH Ministry of Environment and Tourism
 RS Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/02/2004      Effectiveness:             04/17/2009        04/16/2009
Appraisal:            06/25/2007      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/29/2008      Mid-term Review:           11/08/2010        11/08/2010
                                      Closing:                   04/30/2013        10/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome               Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                     Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                   Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     25                  25
Forestry                                                              50                  50
Sub-national government administration                                25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                          33                  33
Environmental policies and institutions                               17                  17
Other environment and natural resources management                    33                  33
Participation and civic engagement                                    17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Laura Tuck                            Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Ellen A. Goldstein                    Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:           Kulsum Ahmed                          John V. Kellenberg
Project Team Leader:      Nathalie Weier Johnson                Jessica Mott
ICR Team Leader:          Solvita Klapare
ICR Primary Author:       Solvita Klapare

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The Project Development Objective is to strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity for sustainable protected area management, and expand the national network of
forest and mountain protected areas.
Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
N/A

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                                  Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                    approval         Target         Completion or
                                                   documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Increase in PA areas under formal protection (using IUCN categories)
                                                                 3% incl.High
                                                                 Conservation
                                                                 Value Forests
Value
                                               3% or approx.     (HCVFs) and
(quantitative or   0.55% formally protected                                      5.5% or 280,921 ha
                                               140,000 ha        Special
Qualitative)
                                                                 Hunting
                                                                 Reserves
                                                                 (SHRs)
Date achieved      05/08/2008                  04/30/2013        04/30/2013      10/31/2013
Comments           EXCEEDED: 136,809 ha formal PAs; 70,012 ha SHRs; 74,100ha HCVF.
(incl. %           Composition changed at MTR to reflect addition of HCVF certified by the Forest
achievement)       Stewardship Council and 2 SHRs under sustainable game management plans
Indicator 2 :      Key threats to biodiversity for each PA decrease or remain unchanged
                                                                 Key threats for Key threats for each
Value                                          At a minimum      each existing existing PA
(quantitative or   To be established           threat levels     PA decrease or decreased or
Qualitative)                                   remain unchanged remain           remained
                                                                 unchanged       unchanged
Date achieved      05/08/2008                  04/30/2013        04/30/2013      10/31/2013
                   ACHIEVED. Indicator is measured by the PA M&E systems or Protected Areas
Comments
                   Management Effectiveness (PAME) tracking tool.
(incl. %
                   Indicator clarified at MTR because it can only be applied to existing PAs. Not
achievement)
                   practical to apply to small HCVF areas or to new PAs
                   Increase in percentage of recurrent costs from sustainable tourism and non-
Indicator 3 :
                   timber harvesting, and donations and by government budget
                                                                                 (RS) - 13.4% from
                                                                                 fees and tourism;
                                                                                 53% of total rev
                                               - Average 20% of (RS) - 8%
                                                                                 from gov budget
                                               costs covered by from fees and
                   -10% from fees (existing                                      (NP 'Sutjeska');
                                               fees              15% from
Value              PAs in RS)                                                    - 10.9% from fees
                                               - Average 20% of budget
(quantitative or   - New PAs in BiH                                              and tourism; 57%
                                               costs covered by (FBiH) - At
Qualitative)       - Less than 10% from                                          of total rev from
                                               fees              least 120,000
                   budget                                                        gov
                                               - At least 15%    KM for NP
                                                                                 budget (NP
                                               from budget       'Una'
                                                                                 'Kozera')
                                                                                 (FBih) -
                                                                                 500,000KM for NP
                                                                              'Una' from gov
                                                                              budget in 2013;
                                                                              500,000KM for
                                                                              other PAs
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013         04/30/2013     10/31/2013
                 EXCEEDED. Targets changed at MTR (1) since in RS, estimates of revenue
Comments
                 potential from sustainable tourism and non-timber harvesting were unrealistic;
(incl. %
                 and (2) amount for NP 'Una' changed to actual contribution as PA was not yet
achievement)
                 fully operational at MTR
Indicator 4 : Improved PA management effectiveness as assessed by tracking tool
                                                               All NPs and All PAs are using
                                                               Virgin Forest M&E and the
Value                                       All project PAs    Reserves in PAME tracking
                 PAME tracking tool (TT)
(quantitative or                            use TT with        project use TT tool to guide and
                 available
Qualitative)                                improving trend with              assist more
                                                               improving      effective PA
                                                               trend          management
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013         04/30/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
                 ACHIEVED. Indicator refined at MTR as it can only be applied to operational
(incl. %
                 PAs. Not practical to apply to small HCVF areas or to new PAs
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Public Support for PAs maintained
                                                               80% based on
Value                                                          focus group
                 Approx.80% support for                                       RS - 94%
(quantitative or                            80%                interviews in
                 PAs                                                          FBiH - 82.8%
Qualitative)                                                   project NPs
                                                               and FRs
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013         04/30/2013     10/31/2013
Comments
                 ACHIEVED. Studies conducted in October 2013. Indicator refined at MTR to
(incl. %
                 define source of data.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                 Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                   approval                     Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                  documents)                    Target Years
                   1a (FBiH). Proposal on legal establishment of two new PAs submitted and
Indicator 1 :
                   feasibility study for one PA completed
Value
(quantitative or   0                          2                                  2
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/08/2008                 04/30/2013                           10/31/2013
Comments           ACHIEVED. 2 proposals on legal establishment of new PAs submitted, NP 'Una'
(incl. %           declared, 'Prenj' proposed. Feasibility study for 'Prenj' completed and accepted by
achievement)       Ministry of Env and Tourism.
                 1 a (RS and FBiH). Number of PAs with management plans under
Indicator 2 :
                 implementation that include ecosystem-based management approaches and tools
                                            At least 3 parks,
                                            including
Value
                                            'Sutjeska', fully
(quantitative or 0                                                          6
                                            implement new
Qualitative)
                                            ecosystem-based
                                            approaches
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
                 EXCEEDED. NP 'Una', Nature Park 'Blidinje' (FBiH), NP 'Sutjeska', NP
(incl. %
                 'Kozera', FR 'Janj', FR 'Lom'.
achievement)
                 1b. M&E System, including tracking of key habitats and species, and the PAME
Indicator 3 :
                 tracking tool established and used for decision making
                                                                            M&E system incl.
                                                                            tracking of key
                                                                            habitat and species
                                            M&E findings
Value                                                                       and
                 Some data but system not used for
(quantitative or                                                            PAME tracking tool
                 established                implementation
Qualitative)                                                                are used in all PAs
                                            completion report
                                                                            for management
                                                                            planning and
                                                                            decision-making
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         ACHIEVED.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 1c. Facilities developed in accordance with PA management plan
                                                                            Priority facilities as
                                            Facilities                      identified in
Value
                                            developed                       management plans
(quantitative or Inadequate facilities
                                            according to PA                 were financed and
Qualitative)
                                            management plans                established in all
                                                                            PAs
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         ACHIEVED.
achievement)
                 2a. Number of participants completing training programs and positive participant
Indicator 5 :
                 feedback
Value
                 Current skills at varying
(quantitative or                            300                             480
                 levels
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         EXCEEDED. 90 for RS and 390 for FBiH
achievement)
Indicator 6 : 2b. Number of public awareness initiatives for biodiversity conservation
Value            0                          Comprehensive                   Public awareness
(quantitative or                            campaigns                       campaigns in RS
Qualitative)                                completed, for                  and FBiH
                                            each PA, and BiH                completed.
                                            PA system                       Program will be
                                                                            continued beyond
                                                                            project closing
                                                                            using
                                                                            materials and
                                                                            strategy
                                                                            developed under
                                                                            project
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         ACHIEVED.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : 2c. Project implementation timely and well-coordinated
                                            Project                         In the last project's
                                            management                      period, the project
Value
                                            ensures                         implementation was
(quantitative or Not applicable
                                            completion of                   timely and well
Qualitative)
                                            project on                      coordinated in both
                                            schedule                        Entities
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         ACHIEVED.
achievement)
                 3. Number of eligible subprojects grants awarded and implemented, with impacts
Indicator 8 :
                 on threat mitigation or ecological monitoring assessed
                                            At least six sub-
                                                                            A total of 14 grants
                                            projects completed
Value                                                                       implemented, and
                                            and assessed for
(quantitative or N/A                                                        outcome and impact
                                            impact and
Qualitative)                                                                evaluation
                                            sustainability/repli
                                                                            completed
                                            cation
Date achieved 05/08/2008                    04/30/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %         EXCEEDED. 8 in FBiH and 6 in RS
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                             GEO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
 16     07/04/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
 17     11/02/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
 18     06/12/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.60
 19    11/18/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          0.60
 20    05/18/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   0.71
                         Moderately                Moderately
 21    11/06/2010                                                       0.85
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 22    06/01/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.07
 23    12/31/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   1.22
                         Moderately                Moderately
 24    04/10/2012                                                       1.32
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 25    11/27/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   2.10
 26    04/22/2013       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          2.65
 27    10/28/2013       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          3.17


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), with a land area of 51,000 km2 and population of 3.8 million, is
endowed with internationally recognized rich biodiversity assets. BiH includes 5 types of climate,
3 agro-climatic regions, and multiple provinces, landscape types and biotopes. BiH covers three
globally significant ecosystems and several smaller-scale globally important sites. The country’s
rich biodiversity includes over 5,000 confirmed taxa of vascular flora, 450 of which are endemic
to BiH only. BiH’s forest resources are among the richest in Europe with a wide variety of
coniferous and deciduous species.

BiH is a post-war country and, as envisaged in the Dayton Peace Agreement, has evolved into a
single sovereign state with a decentralized administrative structure. The State of Bosnia and
Herzegovina is the central authority and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation or
FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS) are its two constituent Entities, which are politically,
administratively and fiscally autonomous. They have different governance structures: the
Federation is decentralized, being composed of 10 Cantons with significant fiscal authority and
their constituent municipalities. The RS is centralized, with relatively few functions decentralized
to its constituent municipalities and no mid-level governments. In most areas of natural resources
management, the Entities have responsibility for creating and implementing all relevant laws. The
Federation delegates some authority and responsibilities to the cantonal level.

The conflict associated with the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, between 1992 and 1995,
caused heavy damage to natural resources. A minimum of 200,000 hectares became contaminated
by landmines, resulting in overexploitation of some rural areas and abandonment of others.
Subsequent to the conflict, poverty, inadequate land-use planning, as well as limited capacity of
local institutions and lack of awareness of conservation issues, had contributed to unsustainable
land use practices and habitat change.

At the time of project preparation, about 2 million people (54% of BiH’s population) lived in
rural areas, and for them forest and mountain ecosystems served as an important source of
subsistence, employment, energy and recreation. It was estimated that at 19%, BiH had the
highest proportion of threatened plant species of any European country, and yet only 0.55% of the
territory was formally protected - the lowest level in Europe - compared to the regional average of
7%. The few existing Protected Areas (PAs) had been under-funded and largely self-financed,
relying on the generation of revenues from various activities. Historically, the largest portion of
funding (between 60-90%) came from sales associated with selective thinning of forests. Other
revenue sources from forest products included fees for grazing, gathering of non-timber forest
products (NTFPs) and hunting (generally less than 10%). National parks obtained some budget
support from government authorities, and tourism was also an important revenue source (between
3-25%).

BiH ratified the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity Conservation in 2002. With support
of the United Nations Environment Program - Global Environment Facility (UNEP-GEF), Bosnia
and Herzegovina was developing its National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP),
the implementation of which the project would directly support.

The World Bank has been continuously involved in the natural resources/environment sector in
the country since 1998. From 1998 to 2003, the Forestry Project, focused on recovery of the


                                                 1
forest sector, also helped to improve the protection of forest ecosystems. A follow-on project, the
Forest Development and Conservation Project (FDCP), supported implementation of reforms in
forest organization and management. The Bank had wide regional experience in GEF biodiversity
projects and forestry operations, including the Croatian Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project,
which included similar and nearby landscapes. Through its leading role in the forestry sector, the
Bank also played an important role in mobilizing donor support for biodiversity conservation in
BiH. To support the country’s broader rural agenda, the local initiatives grants under the project
aimed to build technical skills for activities eligible for EU funds under the Instrument for Pre-
accession Assistance for Rural Development (IPARD) program.

The project was consistent with the 2008-2011 Country Partnership Strategy’s (CPS) objective to
“improve the environment for private-sector led growth and convergence to Europe” with support
for expanded business opportunities and strengthened regional cooperation to manage public
goods. The project was also fully consistent with the provisions of the GEF Operational Strategy,
specifically with the Operational Program (OP) for Forest Ecosystems (OP3) with additional
relevance to the OP for Mountain Ecosystems (OP4) and linkages to the program for
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological Diversity important to Agriculture (OP 13).

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity for sustainable protected area management, and expand the national network of forest
and mountain protected areas. Because the PDO was considered both local and global in nature, it
was also considered to be the global environment objective (GEO). The project would focus on
improving the management effectiveness of four existing PAs, bringing two additional sites under
protected status, assessing feasibility for another site and promoting sustainable natural resource
management and biodiversity conservation activities in or around PAs.

Indicators for outcomes associated with this objective included:

•   Area under formal protection increases from approximately 0.6% to 3.0% (i.e., an addition of
    approximately 120,000 ha);
•   Key threats to biodiversity at each PA decrease or remain unchanged;
•   Portion of recurrent management costs financed by at least 20% from sustainable tourism,
    non-timber harvesting and donations, as well as at least 15% from government budget;
•   Improved PA management effectiveness as assessed in the Protected Areas Management
    Effectiveness (PAME) Tracking Tool;
•   Public support for PAs maintained at a minimum of 80% of respondents as assessed through
    public opinion surveys

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO/GEO was not revised during project implementation, but at Mid-term Review the key
indicators were slightly adjusted to better respond to the situation on the ground (see sections 1.7
and 2.3 below).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The key beneficiaries would include: (i) national, Entity and local government institutions
(including FBiH Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) and RS Ministry of Spatial
Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology (MSPCEE)) responsible for PA planning and oversight;



                                                 2
(ii) national, nature park and other PA managers in the project area; (iii) local residents and
resource users (farmers, forest users, herders, hunters, hikers, service providers to national parks
and park visitors); (iv) national and local NGOs; (v) the academic community and research
institutes; and (vi) tourists.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Protected Area Development would support PA management plans, operations,
assessments and facilities development in existing and new PAs.

Sub-component 1a: PA Management Planning would finance development and implementation of
new PA plans for the two existing National Parks (NPs ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’), for two existing
forest reserves (FRs ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’) and for the new NPs ‘Una’ and ‘Igman-Bjelasnica-
Treskavica-Visocica’ (IBTV). In addition, the project would undertake new feasibility studies to
examine the options for expansion of existing and possible new protected areas.

Sub-component 1b: Ecological and PA Management Assessment would establish a Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) system and support the ecological assessments and periodic assessment of
PA management effectiveness.

Sub-component 1c: PA Facilities would support new infrastructure, and limited small-scale
building rehabilitation, necessary for improving the operations of existing PAs, and for
establishing the newly created protected areas, e.g., trail improvements, new trail creation,
signage, resting places, park boundary markings, visitor entry booths etc.

Component 2: Capacity and Support for Biodiversity Conservation would focus on
strengthening the institutions responsible for planning, establishment and management of PAs.

Sub-component 2a: Institutional Capacity Development: At the PA-level, training and technical
assistance would focus on building competencies in key areas, including: ecosystem-based
management focusing on adaptive management, integration of ecological, economic and social
aspects, and sustainability, business planning emphasizing financial sustainability and marketing
of PAs as quality destinations, and field-level skills in areas such as patrolling, community
engagement, visitor management and interpretation. At Entity level, the component would
finance capacity building for the environmental ministries and other concerned agencies.

Sub-component 2b: Public Awareness Programs would support the development and
implementation of an outreach program to raise public awareness for biodiversity conservation
and PAs.

Sub-component 2c: Project Management and Project Monitoring: Limited financing would be
provided for project management and associated operating costs, meetings of the Project

Guidance Committee, and project monitoring.

Component 3: Local Initiatives in Biodiversity Conservation would support selected grants for
biodiversity conservation efforts by local stakeholders, which promote improved natural resource
management and generate economic benefits to local communities involved in protected areas
management.




                                                  3
1.6 Revised Components
The components were not significantly modified, however in June 2011 the RS MSPCEE
requested project assistance in financing spatial/physical plans for the NPs ‘Kozara’ and
‘Sutjeska’ due to the legislative requirement for all investments, including those under the project,
to be accompanied by such plans.

Also, the scope of sub-component 1a activities was revised in early 2013 to include PA
management plan preparation and implementation in the Nature Park (NatP) ‘Blidinje’ instead of
the originally planned NP ‘Igman-Bjelasnica-Treskavica-Visocica’ (IBTV) in FBiH, due to the
delay in preparing a physical plan for NP ‘IBTV’. This delay stemmed from the controversy over
the nature of development proposed by some stakeholders that could potentially involve
significant risks of compromising biodiversity and environmental values of the proposed PA. A
risk that activities in all pre-selected PAs may not materialize was already identified at appraisal
with a mitigation measure of providing support to alternative PAs.

1.7 Other significant changes

Results Framework Modifications: At mid-term review in November 2010, minor modifications
of the results framework were made to better respond to evolving circumstances. For example,
since project inception there have been achievements and activities benefiting PA conservation,
which were not originally anticipated (e.g., development of high conservation value forests
(HCVF), and new plans to develop sustainable game management for special hunting areas
adjacent to NPs). On the other hand, it was clear that the original design and expectations did not
adequately take into account political and operational constraints (e.g., delays in the start of
operation of NP ‘Una’, low revenue from non-timber forest products and other sources). Hence,
the PDO indicator #1 on the area under formal protection was clarified to recognize additional
types of PAs. PDO indicators #2, #3, and #4 on threats to biodiversity, PA funding and
improvements in PA management effectiveness, were refined to more precisely reflect results
attributed to the RS and the Federation, and to take into account practical application of the
indicators to existing versus new PAs. Since the modifications to the results framework were
minor and served to clarify and not change the existing indicators, no formal restructuring was
carried out.

Closing Date Extension: An extension of the closing date for six months was granted in
December 2012 to enable implementing agencies to complete the spatial plans for the national
parks in RS, which were added as a project activity based on the government’s request (see
section 1.6). The extension would also allow sufficient time to utilize additional resources
generated through savings and favorable exchange rates. In addition, the extension would allow
for several local initiative grants to be fully implemented, which had been delayed as a result of
the project implementation lag at project start and mid-point.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project preparation period was extensive, over four year from concept stage to Board
approval. Management made changes to the team prior to appraisal, resulting in the efficient and
high quality delivery of the project. Despite these delays, the project’s quality at entry was
satisfactory. The project responded to the Government’s priorities in several key areas and
maintained its overall strategic relevance throughout the implementation period. Objectives were



                                                 4
set clearly in the context of the CPS and Government strategies. The lessons from similar projects
in Central and Eastern Europe and elsewhere were fully incorporated in the design.

Assessment of project design and preparation: The design of the project components and
activities was well aligned with its objectives. The number and types of components were fully
consistent with the standard organization of components in most protected area projects. The
proposed indicators, while needing minor revisions at mid-term, were nonetheless all relevant to
measure the proposed outcomes. The number, type and design of components were well aligned
with the intended outcomes.

The project design built on a rigorous background analysis and data from various preparation
studies, most of which were prepared as part of the biodiversity component of the FDCP’s Italian
Grant. The preparation studies included generic frameworks (for environmental management
plans, social assessments, including participation plans, feasibility studies, and PA management
plans), which were to be applied to any proposed PA investments, as well as site analyses specific
to FMPAP. Other biodiversity studies supported under FDCP, which were not a specific part of
project preparation (e.g., status of specific species, impacts of hunting on resource use) were also
relevant to FMPAP. The selection of areas for inclusion in the project was made through a
comprehensive and participatory consultation process and reflected a strong technical consensus
on priorities. The project focused on both already formal PAs, and those with completed
feasibility studies and expected to be legally proclaimed as national parks in the first years of
project implementation.

Alternatives considered: A range of alternatives were identified during project preparation both
related to project design and implementation arrangements. The assessment of alternatives
incorporated lessons from comparable projects recognizing the importance of broad support in the
government, civil society and local communities, use of participatory planning, and establishment
of links related to conservation objectives and tangible benefits from sustainable natural resource
use.

Risk assessment: The risks identified at appraisal were generally adequate. The risk that
establishment of pre-selected PAs may not materialize was probably slightly underestimated and,
as other risks, rated ‘modest’. While one of the mitigation measures, reallocation of funding to
alternative PAs, was correctly identified and later used, operationalization of the newly
established NP ‘Una’ proved to be more challenging than expected, however fully materialized
towards the end of the project. Risk of an under-estimated revenue stream from non-timber
sources, which proved to be lower than expected, was not identified at appraisal.

Government commitment and stakeholder involvement: BiH ratified the United Nations
Convention on Biodiversity Conservation in 2002. With support of the United Nations
Environment Program - Global Environment Facility (UNEP-GEF), BiH was developing its
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). A sub-committee for biodiversity,
through a working group composed of technical professionals from government ministries,
universities and the private sector, guided the NBSAP preparation. The NBSAP committee
members were part of the project preparation work, thus ensuring consistency between the
proposed project design and the NBSAP.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation was affected by a number of positive and adverse factors:




                                                 5
Delay in signing of the Grant Agreement: While not unique for FMPAP, the start of
implementation was delayed due to government processes required for signing of the legal
documents, and the project became effective only eleven months from its Board approval.

Institutional capacity: The project experienced some implementation delays, including slow
disbursements and delays with procurement and preparation of technical packages, and was
therefore downgraded in both PDO/GEO achievement likelihood and Implementation Progress to
Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU; or problem status) just before the Mid-term Review in
November 2010. The ratings were downgraded due to concerns about the Project Management
Units (PMUs) performance and capacity, and slower than expected achievements of project
results, only partial compliance with legal covenants, and lower than expected quality of semi-
annual reports. In response, 90-day action plans were designed, agreed and closely monitored
and changes in the results framework introduced to account for lost time, while keeping most of
the original targets. A supervision mission in April 2011 confirmed that bottlenecks and capacity
issues in the project’s implementation had been mostly resolved. In RS, the new Assistant
Minister was assigned the responsibility to coordinate all donor funded projects. In FBiH, the
project team was to be led by the Assistant Minister who was involved in the original project
design. The project’s implementation picked up, and project performance returned to Moderately
Satisfactory (MS). The March 2012 mission, however, downgraded the project to problem status
again due to a low disbursement rate and reoccurring delays in project implementation. To
respond to the situation and accelerate project activities, RS appointed a new project coordinator
and financial management (FM) specialist. Also, monthly implementation update reports and
conference calls were initiated in March 2012. The project experienced a turnaround and the
March 2013 mission concluded that significant progress had been made by both Entities on
project implementation within the past six months and a majority of project activities had been
completed or were underway. The disbursement rate had risen from 55% in October 2012 to 72%
in March 2013. This good implementation pace was maintained until project closing.

Legislation: In February 2010, the RS Parliament passed a draft Law on National Parks, which
provided a general framework for their operations as Public Institutions, thus permitting direct
access to the government’s budgetary support. The law also prohibited any wood thinning in the
PAs, except for sanitary cleaning. The law on Nature Protection in FBiH was adopted in July
2013.

Budget for PAs: Project implementation significantly benefitted from governments’ commitment
in provision of financing, as per project design. The NPs in RS in 2008 received less than 10
percent of revenue from government budget. The Law on National Parks specified the Public
Institutions status for the NPs, thus allowing access to government budget instead of reliance on
income generated from wood cutting. With the law’s passage, the budgetary contribution reached
over 50 percent of total revenue of the parks in 2012. In FBiH, between 2011 and 2013, the
government’s annual budget allocations for all PAs reached EUR 500,000. The law on Nature
Protection (Official Gazette 66/13), the Law on National Park ‘Una’ (Official Gazette 44/08) and
the Protected Areas Management Plans established provision of adequate annual budget for PA
operation, with the actual amount determined each year by Decision of the FBiH Government.

Delays in operationalizing PAs: While identified as a ‘modest’ risk at appraisal, the
operationalization of the new NPs, or implementation of management plans in existing PAs
appeared to be more challenging than originally anticipated. While government had allocated
budget for NP ‘Una’ operation, disagreements between the Entity, cantonal and municipal levels,
and delay in selecting the NP Director and finalizing a staffing plan, prevented progress with
making the NP operational. A turning point occurred in 2010, however, with the appointment of


                                                6
the NP Director, and at the end of the project all anticipated activities were successfully
completed. The NP ‘IBTV’, also in FBiH, experienced significant delays in starting preparation
of its management plan due to the absence of a physical plan given the controversies described in
section 1.6. An alternative PA, NatP ‘Blidinje,’ was nominated for project interventions, and all
foreseen activities completed by project closing.

Similarly, in RS, preparation of management plans for the NPs ‘Kozara’ and ‘Sutjeska’ and FRs
‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’ was delayed due to poor quality of reports and consultant delays. The plans
were finalized and approved eventually and implementation started by project closing. An
additional delay that prevented implementation of the management plans was the newly adopted
law on PAs requirement that all investments need to be accompanied by physical/spatial plans.

Infrastructure development projects within PAs: As part of the monitoring protocol, beginning
in preparation, proposals for infrastructure investments that may have potential environmental
and/or financial implications for project PAs were identified and monitored. In particular, these
included small hydro-electric power (HEP) concessions granted in 2005/2006, some of which
were located in and around PAs. Also road infrastructure investments were likely to have
implications for protected area design and management options (e.g., the 5c Corridor in the NP
‘Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran’ and NatP ‘Blidinje’). Both PMUs systematically collected
information on planned infrastructure activities in and around project PA sites. In FBiH, the Law
on Nature Protection and the Spatial Plan covering NP ’Una’ prohibited building HEPs and
similar infrastructure within the NP. Similarly, the 5c corridor for the proposed road construction
was excluded from the spatial plan covering Nature Park ‘Blidinje’. The draft spatial plan for NP
‘Sutjeska,’ proposing construction of a small hydro-power plant, is still being debated as part of
the approval process by the National Assembly.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design: The project design included a sound project monitoring and results framework with five
PDO level indicators and eight intermediate outcome indicators covering all aspects of the PDO
and components. Most of the indicators were well defined, however required minor refinements
at the Mid-term Review, to adjust to changing circumstances (e.g., take into account
establishment of new types of PAs), and to make the indicators more focused and relevant (e.g.,
some indicators were more meaningful for existing but not for new PAs). The project introduced
the Protected Area Management Effectiveness (PAME) tracking tool to monitor PA management
effectiveness at project start, mid-term and completion.

Implementation: Results framework indicators were consistently used to measure project
progress throughout implementation in the semi-annual PMU progress reports and Bank’s
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs). The PAME tracking tool was used to
measure and inform protected area managers about progress towards improvement of PAs
management effectiveness (PDO indicator). The tool was completed at project start, mid-term
and project completion. The project also introduced a modern monitoring system through survey
of beneficiaries as a way of assessment of public support to PAs. The surveys were carried out as
part of the public awareness campaign in both Entities, and an additional survey to assess public
support to PAs was carried out in FBiH at the end of the project.

Utilization: In addition to the PAME tracking tool that continues to be used by the project PAs to
identify threats to biodiversity and inform PA management decisions, the project supported
baseline ecological assessments in all project PAs. In both Entities, ecological baseline
assessments of PAs provide information on the presence of certain species and their habitats in



                                                 7
the project sites, status indicators and identify threats by location. In RS, Taxonomic and
Geographical Assessment of Species in Preparation of Compiling the Red List of Fauna and Flora
provides a complete range of distribution of potentially endangered species. The database of
distribution of endangered species that is based on the geographical information system (GIS)
will serve as a starting point for all future research and help to make informed decisions on future
potential protected areas. In addition, a methodology for identifying and classifying endangered
species has been prepared, in accordance with national legislation and internationally accepted
criteria for classification of endangered species. In FBiH, the Red List of endangered plants,
animals and fungi has been completed. Maps of PAs and GIS database for the entire country
have also been completed.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance: During preparation, it was determined that the project triggers OP4.01
Environmental Assessment and is classified as Category B, whose potential adverse
environmental impacts are few and site specific. The project was expected to have an overall
positive environmental impact by conserving biodiversity and improving natural resource use.
An Environmental Assessment / Environmental Management Plan Framework was prepared and
subjected to numerous informal public discussions prior to preparation of the final draft. The
final draft was formally disclosed in public meetings in Sarajevo and Banja Luka in June 2007.

It was also determined that the project triggers OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and an Access
Restriction Process Framework was developed to guide the mitigation of potential negative
impacts on livelihoods of population residing near the PAs and their access to traditional use of
resources in PAs. The framework was disclosed in public meetings in June 2007 in Sarajevo and
Banja Luka. Consultations were held in the communities during the development of the Process
Framework.

Consistent with OP4.36 Forests, the project aimed to harness the potential of forest ecosystems to
reduce poverty in a sustainable way, integrate forest conservation effectively into sustainable
development and protect vital local and global environmental services and values of forests.
OP4.04 Natural Habitats was triggered as the project would help to conserve natural habitats and
ensure that specific project activities would avoid habitat degradation.

The safeguards reviews conducted during implementation confirmed that safeguard policies
triggered by the project were consistently complied with. The project satisfactorily implemented
with respect to safeguard policies on environmental protection, and in line with the
Environmental Management Framework. Site specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
prepared during implementation. All of the works completed were designed and constructed in an
environmentally sound manner and in full compliance with the management plans and practices
in each of the protected areas.

A social beneficiary survey conducted in FBiH at the end of the project confirmed that the
majority of local stakeholders (82.8%) supported project activities. The majority of the
respondents believed that the project generally did not have any negative influence on their
families and households, but more than half of the participants believed that the project improved
the economic situation of the area, in which it is was conducted. Similar results and the overall
approval of project activities were also demonstrated by the surveys carried out in RS.

Financial Management: Financial management throughout the project was satisfactory. The two
PMUs had adequate financial management arrangements for project implementation. At the start



                                                 8
of the project, due to implementation delays there were no regular withdrawal applications
submitted. The audited financial statements were delivered on time and the auditors have issued
an unqualified audit opinion. The project management recommendation letters issued by the
auditors did not contain any internal controls deficiencies or accounting issues. Regular quarterly
Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted on time and have been found
acceptable to the Bank.

In October 2011, the FM review identified that one of the FBiH PMU vehicles had been paid for
but not delivered. This was result of the contractor not releasing the vehicle when its bank
blocked it as a debt guarantee. The case underwent court proceedings. While the PMU has made
other arrangements to ensure that its transportation needs are covered, it did not manage to
recover the funds from the contractor nor receive the contracted vehicle. The issue remained
unresolved until the end of project, and finally the GEF account was replenished by the
government of FBiH in February 2014.

Procurement: The project experienced initial implementation delays in part due to inadequate
procurement capacity in the PMUs, particularly in FBiH. The procurement rating was
downgraded to MS a year after it became effective, and further to MU at project mid-term.
Additional capacity and training was secured following the Mid-term Review and procurement
activities came back on track. In the last year of the project, the procurement rating was upgraded
to Satisfactory, and all procurement activities were assessed to be performed in a professional
manner, and in full compliance with the World Bank Procurement Policies/Guidelines and
procurement plans. This assessment remained effective until project closing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
There is a strong commitment by the Government of BiH, local stakeholders and the donor
community to sustain the biodiversity conservation efforts and build further on the basis
established by the project and other initiatives of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan. Even though more work is needed to ensure long-term sustainability and maximum impact,
clear evidence exists that all stakeholders recognize biodiversity as BiH’s major asset and
efficient protected areas management as critical to maximizing long-term benefits to all. FBiH
and RS implementing agencies indicated need for further Bank investments in capacity building,
public awareness, trans-boundary cooperation efforts, expansion of biodiversity databases and
PAs infrastructure (including integrated fire management programs). A GEF grant of US$ 5.58
million for the Sustainable Forest and Landscape Management Project approved by the World
Bank Board of Directors in January 2014 with an objective to build capacity of forestry sector
stakeholders and to demonstrate approaches for sustainable forest and land management through
integrated management of vulnerable forest, scrub and pasture landscapes will build on the
lessons from the FMPAP. Swedish SIDA has committed resources to publish Red Books in
FBiH based on the Red Lists developed under the project.

UNEP is supporting revision of the National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plan (NBSAP)
and development of the 5th National Report to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
Implementation of the strategic tasks identified under NBSAP 2008-2015 is progressing well with
good progress in developing a legislative basis and assigning budgetary resources for PAs. Many
of the tasks identified in NBSAP have been completed with the support of the FMPAP, including
ecological baseline assessments, PA maps, monitoring mechanism and economic incentive
measure for nature preservation piloting, design of successful public awareness campaigns.
Future important tasks will involve mainstreaming of inter-sectoral approaches in nature




                                                 9
management, exchange of scientific and technological information in the field of biodiversity,
environmental licensing etc.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives, design and implementation approach remain highly relevant to the current
global and BiH priorities, and remain consistent with the Bank’s CPS 2012-2015. BiH’s
diversity of flora, fauna and fungi is considered among the richest in Europe, being especially
important in terms of global biodiversity due to its high level of endemism and relicts. By
ratifying the Convention of Biological Diversity in 2002, BiH has committed to conserve
biological diversity, ensure the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable
sharing of the benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources. The project’s objectives
and design directly contributed to these broad objectives. They remain consistent with the
strategic goals of the Convention’s Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and BiH’s National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan 2008-2015 and its updates. The project is also fully
consistent with the current Bank’s strategy in the country, CPS FY2012-2015, particularly its
outcome of expanded network of protected forest and mountain areas, and strengthened
institutional and technical capacity for their sustainable management.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
The project has satisfactorily achieved its Project Development Objective / Global Environment
Objective which was to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity for sustainable
protected area management, and expand the national network of forest and mountain protected
areas. Over the course of the project, areas under protection in BiH have increased by 5 percent
from 0.5% to 5.5% 1, including by 3 percent of areas under formal protection. Key threats to
biodiversity and forest resources in all project PAs have remained the same or been reduced. The
preparation and/or implementation of management plans for all project PAs, baseline ecological
assessments and the development of M&E systems in each park and the use of the Protected
Areas Management Effectiveness tool tracking have contributed to the reduction in threat level in
the PAs and improved both the effectiveness of park management and the visitor numbers and
revenue collection. The government’s commitment to the PAs is evidenced by the adequate and
consistent annual budget allocation to cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and
research and monitoring investments. Commitment to PAs on a policy and legislative level is
confirmed by the recently adopted Law on Nature Protection in the Federation (July 2013), and
the establishment of PAs as public institutions instead of enterprises in the Republic of Srpska in
2010 through the Law on National Parks. Public support and awareness of the importance of the
PAs, specifically their economic and intrinsic value in BiH, has been established through the
public awareness campaign in both Entities, the training provided under the project, as well as the
Local Initiatives community grants program.

PDO/GEO achievement more specifically can be best illustrated by the PDO indicators,
including:




1
 Including High Value Conservation Forests, which have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council and 2
Special Hunting Reserves under sustainable game management plans




                                                        10
•   Increase in PA areas under formal protection (using all IUCN categories) - Over the course
    of the project, areas under protection in BiH have increased by 5 percent from 0.5% to 5.5%
    (compared to the target of 3%). Formally protected areas have increased by 3%, or in the RS
    territory to 1.14% (or a total of 72,276.48 ha), and in the FBiH to 2.14% (or 109,563 ha) of
    the country’s territory. In addition, the High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF) in FBiH,
    which have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, cover an area of 28,900ha, and
    Special Hunting Reserves under sustainable game management plans in RS cover an area of
    70,012 ha.

•   Key threats to biodiversity for each existing PA decrease or remain unchanged – The PAD
    identified a list of most common threats to biodiversity in each of the proposed project area
    that were to either remain at the same level or decrease. These mainly involved unregulated
    extraction of resources (timber, fuel wood, wildlife etc.), infrastructure development,
    unregulated tourism development, and waste management. In the RS, a law on National
    Parks (2010) prohibited exploitation of forests, including cutting and transport of forest
    products, except for sanitary use. Before enactment of the law, the biggest users of revenue
    from logging were PAs themselves, but government’s commitment to set these revenues off
    by budgetary sources was the right policy. In addition, the project’s contribution to
    equipping the PAs, training of PA management and rangers, as well as project established
    monitoring systems helped to ensure adequate enforcement of this law. Similarly, there is
    evidence of a decrease in wildlife poaching as a result of the effective use of monitoring tools
    and well trained rangers. The project invested in fire-fighting equipment, thus better
    managing and reducing the extent and severity of forest fires. Any possibility that
    infrastructure works might be carried out with potentially adverse impacts on biodiversity, as
    mentioned in Section 2.2 above, was closely tracked during project implementation; the
    spatial and management plans were an effective tool to eliminate this threat.

•   Increase in percentage of actual recurrent costs of operational RS’ National Parks from
    sustainable tourism, non-timber harvesting, donations, government budget – Compared to
    project start when around 10 percent of the parks’ revenue came from fees and less than 10
    percent from government budget, in 2012 the NP ‘Sutjeska’ raised 13.4 percent from tourism
    activities, and fees and services and received 53 percent from government budget. The NP
    ‘Kozara’ share of income from fees and services, and tourism reached 10.9 percent, while
    government contribution amounted to 57 percent of the total revenue. Due to primarily lesser
    income from tourism as a result of a decrease in the number of tourists during the economic
    slowdown, the original target of 20 percent of receipts from fees was decreased to 8 percent
    at the Mid-term Review.

•   FBiH Government budget allocated and utilized for NP ‘Una’ operations – Between 2011
    and 2013, the FBiH government’s annual budget allocations reached EUR 250,000. An
    additional EUR 250,000 annually have been allocated for the support of other protected areas
    management. The law on Nature Protection (July 2013) established provision of adequate
    annual budget for PAs operation.

•   Improved PA management effectiveness as assessed by tracking tool – As per formal
    reporting requirements by GEF, the Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (PAME)
    tracking tool was completed at project start, mid-term and completion in the existing PAs
    (NPs ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’ and FRs ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’); in the first year of the project, at
    mid-term and completion in the NP ‘Una’; and at completion in NatP ‘Blidinje’, since this
    PA was included in the project at a later stage of implementation. Training on the use of the
    PAME tracking tool took place early in the project. Discussions during the training revealed


                                                11
    that in order for the tracking tool to serve as an effective monitoring instrument, it requires
    adapting to local conditions of each PA. For example, the users of the PAME tool wanted to
    see the model adapted to specific classification of the area, given the differences related to
    threats to biodiversity and sustainable economic exploitation. The adjusted tracking tool was
    and continues being used in project PAs. Initial challenges in filling the PAME tool and later
    adjustments for FRs resulted in scoring that has slightly decreased at project completion
    compared to baseline (e.g., in FR ‘Lom’ from 56 in 2008 to 48 in 2013, and FR ‘Janj’ from
    53 to 40). On the other hand, NPs, for which the tool is better tailored, showed an increase in
    scores over time. A good example is NP ‘Una’ where the score at completion has reached 67
    compared to 18 at NP establishment in 2009. NP ‘Sutjeska’ showed an increase in scores
    from 58 to 68, NP ‘Kozara’ score remained at 65, and NatP ‘Blidinje’ total score was 67 in
    2013 (the only time PAME TT completed for this park). Some actual examples of the
    effectiveness of the monitoring system include: identifying areas, which are most popular
    with visitors and serve as places for picnics informed decisions to build necessary facilities
    around these areas; by monitoring the changes in status of rare and endangered plant species,
    such as rare Yew (Taxus baccata), which grows only at three sites in the NP ‘Kozara’, it was
    found that frequent visits to these sites impair the growth of new trees, resulting in limiting
    access to these sites, and planting additional seedlings.

•   Public Support for PAs maintained – In RS, analysis of the target groups’ opinion was
    carried out as part of the public awareness campaign. Following completion of the campaign,
    at the end of the project, 94 percent of respondents indicated support to PAs (against the
    baseline of 80 percent and target of maintaining at least baseline). In FBiH, the social
    beneficiary survey conducted at the end of the project confirmed that the majority of local
    stakeholders (82.8 percent) supported project activities.

3.3 Efficiency
The PAD did not provide a formal quantified economic analysis as the project would primarily
produce local, national, and global environmental benefits whose value could not be readily
quantified. The analysis instead evaluated environmental benefits in qualitative terms and,
consistent with GEF requirements, summarized the estimated incremental costs. At completion, a
cost-benefit analysis was undertaken to assess the economic efficiency of activities and in
particular the generation of positive landscape and watershed services from extending the PA
system.

Project design assumed environmental and economic benefits arising through physical investment,
development of new strategies, capacity building and training. The project would also support
activities to assist communities in and around PAs in developing sustainable and alternative
revenue generation. Through the expansion of protected areas covered and stakeholder capacity
enhancement activities, the project would generate significant mutual economic and
environmental benefits by: (i) creating the opportunity for generating jobs from better utilization
of non-timber values of forests, particularly from tourism and recreation, including non-timber
forest product collection, sustainable commercial game management; (ii) securing conservation
of biodiversity in internationally-important forest habitats including HCVFs; and (iii)
conservation and improved management of globally-significant endemic biodiversity and
landscape values of critical ecosystems.

The beneficiary survey carried out in FBiH at the end of the project and local initiative grant
impact assessments in both Entities confirmed the understanding that the project yielded positive
economic returns (for details see Annex 3). On the NP revenue side, there has been an increase in


                                                12
park revenue from tourism and budgetary transfers. While income from tourism in the two
existing NPs in RS increased at a slower pace, reaching 13.4 and 10.9 percent, compared to
baseline of 10 percent, increased tourism income in the newly established NP ‘Una’, which due to
its location at the Una river offers such activities as rafting and other water sports, increased
eight-fold within three years, from KM 22,000 in 2011 to KM 186,000 in 2013. Similarly, there
has been a considerable increase in the budget allocation for PA operations, reaching over 50
percent in RS compared to a baseline of less than 10 percent, and amounting to Euro 250,000 per
year for NP ‘Una’.

Cost- benefit analysis

Given the challenges of assigning monetary benefits to the entire range of economic benefits
generated by the project, only one specific economic benefit was included in the quantitative ex-
post economic assessment of project feasibility. The ex-post economic analysis was based on the
generation of positive watershed services through the significant, 10-fold extension of the PA
system in the country. Other economic benefits not included were, for example, increased
sequestration of Green-house Gases (GHG) by forest ecosystems, avoiding GHG emissions
through deforestation and forest degradation, biodiversity values, bequest values, and others. A
Cost-Benefit-Analysis was conducted to assess the economic efficiency of this project.
Sensitivity analysis was also applied for the main simulation parameters: notably the discount rate,
carbon price, and watershed benefit increments. To test the robustness of initial results,
agricultural yields, watershed benefits, and carbon benefits were reduced by 50%. As required
for economic analysis of projects, a With and Without project situation was used for estimating
incremental benefits generated by the project. The Net Present Value (NPV) and Benefit-Cost
Ratio (B/C-Ratio) were used as criteria to assess the economic feasibility of the project.

Based on the economic evaluation, details of which are presented in Annex 3, it can be
concluded that the project resulted in significant positive development impacts. The
consideration of only a few of these benefits in the quantitative analysis sufficed to yield positive
economic results. The achieved economic benefits comply largely with what was anticipated
during the design stage. This supports the design and implementation of the project, in particular,
the selection of investment activities. It also demonstrates that investments in sustainable natural
resource management can significantly contribute to economic development in ambitious
transition economies, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, as they generate and safeguard important
direct environmental services and foster economic development.

Incremental Cost Analysis

An incremental cost analysis was conducted at the time of preparation (see Annex 3) and
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the GEF, that the project, compared to the “without project”
scenario, would be an efficient means for BiH to strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity for sustainable protected area and natural resource management; while expanding the
BiH network of forest and mountain protected areas. Annex 3 examines in greater detail the
efficiency of incremental costs. The baseline scenario clearly revealed that without the project the
biodiverse rich natural ecosystems would not be sufficiently protected from the major transition-
related threats anticipated over the short and medium term.




                                                 13
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall PDO/GEO outcomes are rated satisfactory. The PDO/GEO remains highly relevant
for local and global natural resource management and sustainable land management agenda. The
PDO was largely achieved and most planned outputs were delivered efficiently and cost
effectively. Full disbursement of the grant has been achieved 2 and all project activities originally
planned have been executed.

Public support and awareness of the importance of the PAs, specifically their economic and
intrinsic value has been established through the public awareness campaign, the training provided
under the project, as well as the local initiatives community grants program. The management of
the project PAs has been substantially improved. Visitor numbers in parks is steadily growing.
For example, the number of visitors in NP ‘Una’ has increased almost ten-fold (from 3,000 to
29,000) since its opening in 2011. The governments’ of both Entities commitment to the PAs is
evidenced by the adequate and consistent annual budget allocation to cover recurrent
expenditures and priority capital and research and monitoring investments.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Local initiative grants demonstrated that the local population can gain tangible benefits as a result
of enhanced biodiversity conservation and expansion of protected areas. The initiative was
instrumental in raising awareness about the importance of protecting biodiversity and natural
resources and also contributed to tourism attraction, thus directly benefitting local initiative grant
recipients and other businesses in the area. While the component was limited in scale (although
the number of sub-projects exceeded the target), these pilots lay an important basis for replication
using other sources of financing (e.g., EU pre-accession assistance instruments, such as Financial
Instrument for the Environment (LIFE) - Nature and Special Action Program for Pre-Accession
Aid for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD), and Entity-based Funds for
Environmental Protection (Eco-Funds)). Among other outcomes, support was provided for
construction of a small waste water treatment facility and to open dump closure, as well as
expansion of beekeeping and medical herb operations. Funding was also granted to the women’s
association in Kulen Vakuf (NP ‘Una’) to support carpet weaving and other activities practiced
by members of the women’s association, which operated near NP ‘Una’. The grant supported
equipment for the weaving workshop and training. The support to the women’s group helped
ensure regular income for the women, many of which are widows, and also provided a
community and companionship for previously unemployed women who suffered from post-war
trauma.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project directly contributed to enhancing the administration capacity of PAs, as well as
ministry staff through provision of training and increased hands-on experience in PA
management. Significant institutional strengthening occurred when individual park teams gained
international exposure to other country park systems through study tours and exchanges.



2
  Apart from appr. US$22,000 that had to be replenished to GEF as a results of contracted but undelivered vehicle (see
section 2.4 for details)




                                                         14
The management planning process and models established under the project in the existing PAs
will be applicable to other existing PAs. The experience gained in both the legal and structural
formation of newly established PAs can also be readily used in establishment of new PAs outside
of the project. Project supported M&E systems not only were used to draw lessons learned but
also cultivated a learning culture within the agencies responsible for PA management, enabling
them to adjust their operations to take into account these lessons, consistent with modern
“ecosystem management approaches” (i.e., adaptation, integration, precaution (avoidance of
negative impacts) and sustainability).

Finally, the project influenced nature protection legislation by promoting and demonstrating the
management planning process that was subsequently adopted into law.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Social Beneficiary Survey was carried out in FBiH to assess public support to PAs against the
baseline social assessment results. In RS, two rounds of surveys to examine public support and
level of awareness were carried out as part of the public awareness component. The baseline
social assessment conducted in the six project-supported PAs determined that, in general, the
majority of people living directly adjacent to the PAs and depending on these areas for their
livelihoods, supported the concept of biodiversity conservation through the protection of land and
the objective to change management practices, expand the area under protection, and promote
tourism. Local stakeholders living in or around the proposed areas anticipated that they would
benefit from improvements in the quality of natural resources, due to more sustainable natural
resource management, including increased control over illegal resource extraction. Benefits were
also anticipated from tourism-related income and employment opportunities. In addition,
respondents expected that activities to expand the PA network would actively promote the revival
of local communicates, through improved infrastructure (roads, water, etc.), eco-tourism, and
better opportunities for marketing agricultural and NTFPs. Less than 5 percent of those surveyed
expressed opposition to changes in PA management and establishment. Their concerns focused
on additional or new restrictions on hunting, fishing, forestry, NTFP collection and agricultural
production. Findings on the views about possible restrictions showed that the majority were in
support of controlling construction, and considered that restrictions on natural resource use would
not have significant economic impact. Assessments at project start, however, also showed that
local communities needed more information about the process and impacts of establishing
national parks and that this will have to be actively remedied in order to prevent potential
conflicts.

The social beneficiary survey conducted in FBiH at the end of the project confirmed that the
majority of local stakeholders (82.8 percent) generally support project activities. The majority of
respondents believed that the project generally did not have any negative influence on their
families and households, but more than half of the participants believed that the project improved
the economic situation of the area. Furthermore, approximately half of the participants believed
that the project's activities did not have an effect on employment opportunities in the area, in
which they live, but a little over a third believed that the project's activities brought about an
increase in employment opportunities.




                                                15
Similar results and overall approval rate of project activities was demonstrated by the surveys
carried out in RS, where before the public awareness campaign 92 percent of respondents
supported the existing and new PAs, but 94 percent also indicated that more information about
PAs is needed. Following the public awareness campaign, a second phase of the public opinion
research was carried out. Support to the PAs showed that 94 percent more respondents knew
about PAs in their vicinity, including the names and location of RS’s NPs, and the percentage of
those who indicated a need for more detailed knowledge on PAs decreased, albeit slightly, to 89
percent.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

There are two key risks to sustaining the development outcome of the project: financial and
social, both of them assessed as low.

Financial: The project was designed to diminish reliance on revenue from forest thinning and
build financial sustainability through an increase of revenue from tourism, and regular and
adequate government budget support. Project implementation significantly benefitted from
commitment of the governments in provision of financing, as per project design. The NPs in RS
in 2008 received less than 10 percent of revenue from government budget. The Law on National
Parks specified the Public Institutions status for the NPs thus allowing access to government
budget instead of reliance on income generated from wood cutting. With the law’s passage, the
budgetary contribution reached over 50 percent of total revenue of the parks in 2012. In FBiH,
between 2011 and 2013, the government’s annual budget allocations for all PAs reached EUR
500,000. The law on Nature Protection (Official Gazette 66/13), the Law on National Park Una
(Official Gazette 44/08) and the Protected Areas Management Plans established provision of
adequate annual budget for PA operation, with the actual amount determined each year by
Decision of the FBiH Government. In RS, the Law on National Parks assigning public institution
status to PAs allows for access to government budget revenues, in particular, for protection
functions and capital improvements. Similarly, FBiH’s Law on Nature Protection ensures that
annual budget allocations to the PAs are provided. The improvement of park infrastructure and
successful public awareness campaigns have also led to an increase in fees from tourism activities
(such as hiking, fishing, rafting, diving). Such dynamics are expected to continue beyond project
closing.

Social perception: The project was instrumental in increasing social sustainability though
acceptance of PA network expansion by local stakeholders and the public in general. This can be
attributed to a number of key project activities, including the state of the art public awareness
campaign featuring a famous football player and artist and particularly targeting youth, local
biodiversity initiatives, small grant support, and a participatory approach in PA planning.

Government ownership: The relevance and importance of protected areas and nature protection
for the governments is evidenced by the consistent and adequate annual budget allocation to
cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and research and monitoring investments.
Commitment to PAs on a policy and legislative level is confirmed by the recently adopted Law
on Nature Protection in the Federation (July 2013), and the establishment of PAs as public
institutions instead of enterprises in the Republic of Srpska in 2010 through the Law on National
Parks. The project’s activities have established the foundation for the institutional and financial
sustainability of the protected areas system in BiH. The baseline biological assessments, the
management plans, the M&E systems and databases, and lessons learned through study tours will
have lasting and permanent impacts well beyond the close of the project.


                                                16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance in project identification, support for preparation, and appraisal is rated
moderately satisfactory due to extensive time and budget spent for project preparation (see
section 2.1 above). In addition, there were minor shortcomings with the way project risks were
assessed, and under-assessment of PMUs fiduciary capacity (particularly, procurement).
However, project design was rigorous and thorough. Preparation involved detailed field visits,
stakeholder interviews and various workshops. During the preparation and design phase,
intensive client interaction and cooperation took place leading to a joint project design. The
PDO/GEO was clear and realistic with project components and activities well linked and
supporting the PDO/GEO outcomes. The PDO indicators and targets in principle provided a
comprehensive reflection of the expected project achievements. The project benefitted from
background analysis and studies undertaken under the FDCP, and lessons from similar projects in
the region and beyond were adequately incorporated.

The project was also timely and consistent with governments’ priorities at the time of preparation
of the country’s National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. The project’s objectives were
also closely linked to the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy at the time of appraisal, as well as
currently.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank provided continuity in supervision by conducting regular supervision missions every 6
months. Interim Project Support missions were organized in response to specific problems in
implementation. Actions taken by the Bank during supervision were mostly appropriate, timely
and adequate, with some areas of notable achievements. The Bank set high standards for
implementation, and consistently maintained a long-term vision with a strong focus on results,
building capacity, involving stakeholders and efficient administration. Supervision was also
flexible and adaptive to emerging realities. The aide memoires and the ISRs showed direct
involvement in supervision. Procurement and financial management performance were regularly
assessed and, in the case of procurement, when problems were found, all necessary attempts were
made to rectify them promptly. The mission aide-memoires were comprehensive, well prepared
and clearly articulated agreed actions for each project component.
The supervision team appropriately flagged critical risks and mitigation measures at the time of
project slow-down and was realistic in assessment and allocation of the performance ratings. A
“90-day action plan” to address the critical bottlenecks was introduced at the time of the first
downgrade, and monthly performance reports at the time of second downgrade. The team
effectively raised issues affecting the project to management’s attention. These interventions
succeeded in effectively addressing problems that arose and bringing the project performance to a
satisfactory completion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
While considering satisfactory performance of the Bank at the completion of the project
preparation and consistently through its implementation, based on the evaluation criteria set in the



                                                17
ICR guidelines, which requires lower of the two ratings be the overall rating, the overall Bank
performance is thus rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The BiH government commitment and ownership of the project has been high throughout the
project cycle. At preparation, the BiH Council of Ministers and the governments of both Entities
fully supported project objectives and design, with the country developing its National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP). Attention to project activities in FBiH
somewhat lessened during elections in 2010, and project implementation was particularly affected
during the first half of 2011 due to changes in government. While there was generally strong
support and interest in the project from the sector ministries, attention had shifted to different
priorities. These changes led to a temporary oversight gap that led to delays in necessary project-
level institutional changes.
Despite these challenges that mostly affected implementation arrangements, the governments’
commitment to the PAs has been evidenced by the adequate and consistent annual budget
allocation to cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and research and monitoring
investments. Commitment to PAs on a policy and legislative level is confirmed by the recently
adopted Law on Nature Protection in the Federation (July 2013), and the establishment of NPs as
public institutions instead of enterprises in the Republic of Srpska in 2010 through the Law on
National Parks.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The PMU performance in both Entities in the earlier part of the project resulted in delays, which
is reason for a rating that is less than Satisfactory. In the later part however, the PMUs managed
to make up for these delays, and once the new PMU management and key staff were in place,
implementation proceeded at a fast pace, with quality of procurement documents and technical
specifications increasing and disbursements accelerating significantly. In spite of the difficulties
at the beginning of the project, the project was almost fully disbursed and all project activities
originally planned had been executed. The disbursement rate had been raised from 55 percent in
October 2012 to full disbursement of the grant on October 2013. All planned project activities
had been carried out and project targets met.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall Recipient performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory, combining the two above
ratings by application of the evaluation criteria rules set out in the ICR guidelines. However,
consistently strong commitment and ownership by the BiH Council of Ministers and the
governments of both Entities has been noteworthy throughout project preparation and
implementation. Implementing agencies’ Moderately Satisfactory rating is based on
performance during the earlier half of project implementation, while their dedication and
commitment to gain the time lost and complete all project activities only with a short extension of
the project time, is exemplary.




                                                 18
6. Lessons Learned
•   PA management planning process benefits from use of participatory approaches and
    carefully thought-through coordination mechanisms – Involving a wide range of
    stakeholders in the PA planning process contributes to buy-in and ownership of protected
    areas. During the planning process the use of community meetings and consultation with
    stakeholders can improve the overall management plan and success of its implementation. A
    common understanding across national, provincial and local level stakeholders by engaging
    them in discussions related to goals and strategies should therefore be built early in the
    process to ensure efficient coordination and execution of the decision making process. By
    contrast, involving supervisory bodies, with a large number of members, in specific key
    decisions can cause difficulties due to clashes of interest and strong opinions and this should
    be avoided.
•   Importance of legislative framework - Some of the initial project implementation delays
    stemmed from inefficient or contradictory legislative and financial frameworks governing
    PAs. While many of the problems were a consequence of a broader political context, in some
    cases they also reflected traditional dependency on legislative approaches, which should be
    avoided. For example, in FBiH, PA Physical Plans require parliamentary approval, and the
    appointment of the NP Directors requires Cabinet approval. In the climate of political
    uncertainty, as it was in 2010-2011, delays in such decisions are likely. While existing
    legislative frameworks and centralized physical and spatial planning requirements delayed
    project activities in some PA, the amendment during the project of the financial framework
    through the adoption of new nature protection laws in both Entities ensured that adequate
    financing was provided and will continue to be provided after the project closes.
•   Flexibility of sequencing project interventions is crucial in projects that involve a planning
    phase - Project design conditioned start of park infrastructure investments on completion of
    the PA management plans. Delays in finalizing and adopting the management plans therefore
    also delayed start of construction of the necessary infrastructure. While in theory the final
    decisions on locations and types of any equipment and infrastructure should follow
    completion of planning process, in practice a phased approach is more appropriate at least for
    the purchase of some basic equipment (such as vehicles or ranger equipment) and
    construction of basic infrastructure (such as fire towers in the areas with most visitors).
•   Importance of investments in key infrastructure of protected areas cannot be understated -
    Infrastructure of protected areas is a basis for quality and sustainable management of
    protected areas. Small investments in equipping the protected areas with fire-fighting
    equipment, trails and signs, and off-road vehicles for ranger services bring high returns not
    only in terms of enhancing protection but also by increasing park revenue. Additional
    benefits come from enabling local population to engage in economic activities using
    proximity of the protected areas.
•   Public awareness raising is crucial for establishment of new and expansion of existing
    PAs; small grant initiatives are instrumental for raising awareness – At project start, there
    was little awareness about the importance of biodiversity to local and national economies, the
    role of local communities, and opportunities that PAs can offer to the local population,
    including production of eco-friendly produce, sustainable tourism, securing additional
    sources of funding from the donors and EU etc. Instead, in some instances, expansion of PAs
    was perceived as a threat to the livelihoods of local communities with loss of territory, natural
    and material resources. Public awareness campaigns, involving local communities in
    management planning, and grants provided for local initiatives were all instrumental in
    ensuring public support. The importance of the local initiative grants should be underlined, as


                                                 19
    these not only raised awareness about the importance of conservation and protection of
    biodiversity and natural resources and contributed to improvement of tourist offerings in the
    protected areas (diverse agricultural products, traditional souvenirs, etc.), but also
    strengthened the cooperation between the population and the local governments and
    administrations of protected areas.
•   Importance of biodiversity data and monitoring systems - At project start, there were no
    systematized data and studies of flora and fauna available, thus prohibiting design of well-
    targeted interventions. Environmental databases that were created as part of the project’s
    Ecological Baseline Assessment of PAs studies and the preliminary list and GIS database of
    endangered species of flora and fauna resulting from the Taxonomic and Geographical
    Assessment of Species are a great achievement for future operations. Capturing baselines,
    against which to measure progress and test effectiveness is a critical part of project
    preparation and should not be left until later in the project, thus delaying measuring of
    success and causing the project to capture an inflated baseline rather than the without-project
    scenario. Piloting a new monitoring system (PAME tracking tool) under the project, and
    demonstrating and building awareness of its benefits, creates opportunity to expand the
    system to other parks, thus increasing the capacity to manage and monitor the park system in
    the country. A monitoring system should be simple and focused, and allow for flexibility to
    make changes and add new, more relevant variables that are identified over time.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
RS PMU and FBiH PMU prepared the Project Completion Reports in December 2013, and
January 2014, respectively. In evaluating project design and achievements, the reports indicate
satisfaction with project outcomes, based on the fact that the outputs called for under the project’s
three components were fully completed. A summary of Recipients’ completion reports can be
found in Annex 7.
The draft ICR was shared with the PMUs, their comments incorporated in the final report and
concurrence received on April 17 from RS PMU and April 18, 2014 from FBiH PMU.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                                 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                         millions)
C 1: Protected Area Development             3.30              5.20             157.60
C 2: Capacity and Support for
                                            1.65              1.63             98.80
Biodiversity Conservation
C 3: Local Initiatives Grants               0.45              0.57             126.70
             Total Baseline Cost            5.40              7.40             137.00
Physical Contingencies                      0.30              0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.30              0.00
             Total Project Costs            6.00              7.40             123.30
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)          0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00              0.00
      Total Financing Required              6.00              7.40             123.30




(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                      Type of         Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing         (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)      millions)
Government of BiH                   In kind        2.50           3.88          155.2
Local Communities                   In kind        0.10           0.15          150.0
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                  3.40           3.38          99.4
TOTAL                                              6.00           7.41          123.5




                                              21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component          PAD Output                     Revised Output                 Actual End-of-project Output
1a - PA            FBiH - Management Plans        FBiH - Management Plan         FBiH – Management Plans for 2
Management         for 2 newly established PAs    for PP ‘Blidinje’ instead of   newly declared PAs – NP ‘Una’ and
Planning           - NP ‘Una’ and NP ‘IBTV’;      NP ‘IBTV’ (revision agreed     PP ‘Blidinje’ completed and
                   feasibility study for PA       mid-2010)                      approved; F/S completed for PA
                   ‘Prenj, Cvrsnica, Cabulja,                                    “Prenj, Cvrsnica, Cabulja, Vran”
                   Vran’                          RS – Preparation of Spatial
                                                  Plans for the two NPs added    RS - Management Plans for 4 PAs
                   RS - Management Plans for      (June 2011) to allow           (NPs ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’ and
                   existing PAs - NPs             meeting legal obligations      Forest reserves ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’)
                   ‘Sutjeska’, ‘Kozara’, and                                     implemented
                   Forest reserves ‘Janj’ and
                   ‘Lom’                                                         Spatial Plans for the two NPs
                                                                                 prepared
1 b - Ecological   Baseline ecological surveys    N/A                            FBiH - Baseline Ecological Surveys
and PA             to assess biodiversity and                                    completed for NPs ‘Una’ and Nature
Management         resource use for all project                                  Park ‘Blidinje’; Red List of
Assessment         areas                                                         threatened species (plants, animals
                                                                                 and fungi) completed and approved
                                                                                 for the whole territory of FBiH. Maps
                                                                                 of PAs in BiH and GIS database were
                                                                                 also completed under this sub-
                                                                                 component.

                                                                                 RS - Baseline Ecological Surveys
                                                                                 completed for NPs ‘Sutjeska’ and
                                                                                 ‘Kozara’ and Forest reserves ‘Janj’
                                                                                 and ‘Lom’. The assessments contain
                                                                                 the list of flora and fauna in PAs, GIS
                                                                                 database and methodology for their
                                                                                 monitoring. Taxonomic and
                                                                                 Geographical Assessment of Species
                                                                                 for preparation of Red List completed

                                                                                 Protected Area Management
                                                                                 Effectiveness (PAME) tracking tool
                                                                                 was adapted for project use and filled
                                                                                 in at project launch, mid-term review
                                                                                 and project completion

1 c - PA           New infrastructure and         N/A                            FBiH - PA priority facilities
Facilities         limited small-scale building                                  developed in NPs ‘Una’ (access
                   rehabilitation                                                pedestrian road and viewing point;
                                                                                 solar panels were installed on info
                                                                                 houses; minibus for 16 passengers)
                                                                                 and Nature Park ‘Blidinje’ (a bicycle
                                                                                 trail in the length of 10 km). In both
                                                                                 PAs a number of shelters, benches,
                                                                                 info boards, signs, roofing, waste
                                                                                 bins, other soft infrastructure
                                                                                 installed, field equipment and clothes
                                                                                 for rangers procured. Small fire
                                                                                 fighting vehicles procured for two
                                                                                 PAs.

                                                                                 RS - PA priority facilities were
                                                                                 developed in four PAs, incl. shelters,
                                                                                 game viewing posts, benches, signs,



                                                         22
                                                           waste bins and other soft
                                                           infrastructure.
                                                           Small fire fighting vehicles procured
                                                           for all four PAs. The four wheel drive
                                                           vehicle procured for NP ‘Sutjeska’
                                                           and off road motor bicycles for NP
                                                           ‘Kozara’ due to the different terrain
                                                           conditions. IT equipment for PAs and
                                                           field equipment and clothes for
                                                           rangers also procured.
2a -            PAs – training and TA on        N/A        FBiH - Capacity building and skill
Institutional   ecosystem-based                            development of PA staff and
Capacity        management; business                       managers, ministry and PMU staff in
Development     planning; field skills                     different aspects of ecosystem-based
                                                           management, business planning and
                Entity and State – support                 field skills. Trainings were organized
                on (i) operationalizing parts              throughout the duration of project
                of the NBSAP, incl. policy,                with the total of 390 participants. A
                legal and financial aspects                study tour to NP ‘Beverin’ in
                of establishing an effective               Switzerland organized to provide
                system of biodiversity                     first-hand experience of how parks in
                protection; (ii)                           the region are organized both from an
                strengthening cross-border                 institutional and financial point of
                initiatives to conserve high               view.
                conservation value
                ecosystems in the Balkans,                 RS - Trainings on business planning,
                through targeted exchanges                 sustainable PA management, PAME
                with neighboring PAs                       tool application etc. were organized
                                                           throughout the duration of project
                Studies – on selected PA                   with the total of 90 participants. A
                management issues                          study tour to National Parks ‘Triglav’
                                                           in Slovenia and ‘Hohe Tauer’ in
                                                           Austria completed in June 2013.

                                                           At the State (and Entity) level – PA
                                                           management plans, ecological
                                                           baseline studies, taxonomic and
                                                           geographical assessment of species
                                                           studies, PA maps, studies on
                                                           monitoring mechanism and economic
                                                           incentives for nature preservation, as
                                                           well as design of public awareness
                                                           campaign greatly contributed to
                                                           operationalize NBSAP activities.
2b - Public     Public awareness initiatives    N/A        FBiH - PA campaign completed and
Awareness       with activities such as                    fully launched; activities included:
Programs        development of promotional                 development of a logo and visual
                materials, establishing                    identity, website and social media,
                and/or improving PA                        promotional spot, promotional song,
                websites, environmental                    roundtables and workshop, brochures
                education, media                           and promotional campaign materials,
                advertising and public                     travel for journalists etc.
                consultation on PA
                operations and                             RS – PA campaign comprised
                management.                                analysis of public opinion,
                                                           development of logo, TV and radio
                                                           shows and reports, spots, printed
                                                           media articles including newspapers
                                                           of wide international coverage like
                                                           National Geographic etc., flyers,
                                                           brochures, web page development
                                                           and workshops for media and



                                                      23
                                                            children.

2c - Project     Project management and          N/A        PMUs performance, incl.
Management       operating costs, incl.                     procurement, FM and M&E
                 coordination and                           improved substantially within last
                 administrative staff,                      two years of project implementation
                 procurement, disbursement,                 enabling to complete all project
                 financial management and                   activities satisfactorily.
                 M&E function.
3c - Local       6-10 sub-projects in: (i) PA               FBiH – 3 sub-projects (grants) in NP
Initiatives in   compatible income-                         ‘Una’ and 5 grants in PP ‘Blidinje’
Biodiversity     generation, e.g., ecotourism               successfully completed (examples:
Conservation     activities, sustainable NTFP               bees return to area, medicinal plants
                 extraction, agri-                          processing, conservation of water
                 environmental enterprises,                 source, wild dump site removal etc.)
                 environmental certification;
                 (ii) habitat and landscape                 RS – 6 grants supporting school in
                 conservation; (iii)                        nature, beekeeping, cleaning of the
                 sustainable environmental                  glacial lake in NP ‘Kozara’,
                 management (waste mngm,                    reforestation of the tree species,
                 alternative energy); at least              rehabilitation of mountaineers home
                 one per PA                                 etc., successfully completed




                                                       24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The PAD did not provide a formal quantified economic analysis as the project would primarily
produce local, national and global environmental benefits whose value could not be readily
quantified. The analysis instead evaluated environmental benefits in qualitative terms and,
consistent with GEF requirements, summarized the estimated incremental costs. At completion, a
cost-benefit analysis was undertaken to assess the economic efficiency of activities – and in
particular the generation of positive watershed services from extending the PA system.
Project design assumed environmental and economic benefits arising through physical investment,
development of new strategies, capacity building and training. The project supported activities to
assist communities in and around PAs in developing sustainable and alternative revenue
generation. Through the expansion of protected areas covered and stakeholder capacity
enhancement activities, the project generated significant mutual economic and environmental
benefits by: (i) creating the opportunity for generating jobs from better utilization of non-timber
values of forests, particularly from tourism and recreation, including non-timber forest product
collection, sustainable commercial game management; (ii) securing conservation of biodiversity
in internationally-important forest habitats, including HCVFs; and (iii) conservation and
improved management of globally-significant endemic biodiversity and landscape values of
critical ecosystems.
The beneficiary survey carried out in FBiH at the end of the project and local initiative, grant
impact assessments in both Entities confirmed the understanding that the project yielded positive
economic returns. While surveys or park monitoring systems did not account for a number of
new jobs or income generated, there is clear evidence of increased income from local initiative
grants 3. The beneficiary survey in FBiH revealed that the most common reasons for support of
project activities included the potential for increased employment in PA areas. A little over a
third of respondents believed that project activities brought an increase in employment
opportunities in project areas. While only a small number of interviewed indicated that they
received profit from tourism, the number of those who profited from the sale of food, herbs and
plants increased in comparison to 2008.
On the NP revenue side, there has been a considerable increase in park revenue from tourism and
budgetary transfers. While income from tourism in the two existing NPs in RS increased at a
slower pace, reaching 13.4% and 10.9% compared to baseline of 10%, the increase in tourism
income in the newly established NP ‘Una’, which due to its location at the Una river offers such
activities as rafting and other water sports, increased eight-fold within three years; from KM
22,000 in 2011 to KM 186,000 in 2013.
Similarly, there has been a considerable increase in the budget allocation for PA operations,
reaching over 50% in RS compared to a baseline of less than 10%, and amounting to Euro
250,000 per year for NP ‘Una’.




3
  E.g., the women’s association in Kulen Vakuf (NP ‘Una’) which received a grant to support carpet weaving and other
activities practiced continues its successful operation beyond project closing. The traditional carpets and blankets use
wool bought from family farms engaged in sheep-breeding in NP ‘Una’ area and are being successfully sold at the
park’s checkpoints.




                                                          25
Economic Analysis
          Introduction
The significance of ecosystems is seldom adequately recognized in economic markets,
government policies or land management practices. The tendency to underestimate the value of
ecosystems is related, for the most part, to their “public good” quality. Ecosystems and the
services they provide generate shared benefits and often encourage free riding. Due to their
public nature these services typically go un-priced or are under-priced and do not reflect the true
value of what their replacement cost would be. Collectively these features lead to pervasive
degradation of ecosystems as a consequence of systemic market failures. 4
In acknowledging the challenge of sustainable natural resource management and conservation of
the environment, this project aimed to enhance the management of PA by: (i) extending the area
under protected areas and (ii) improving the operational effectiveness and institutional
sustainability of the protected area system in the country. The below paragraphs present an
analysis of the project’s economic and financial benefits. By estimating the (partial) values of
changes to ecosystem services, one can compare the economic and financial benefits at different
degrees among the various interventions. 5,6
          Economic Benefits generated by the Project
With its different components and multiple areas of investments, the project generated a diverse
portfolio of economic benefits ranging from direct, tangible benefits to indirect, intangible
benefits. A direct, tangible benefit is, for example, the increase in tourism income through an
increase in tourists and increase in PA accession and concession fees. On the other side of the
scale, indirect and intangible economic benefits of the project are, for example, the improvement
of the public administration and the associated delivery of public services triggered by the
capacity building of the protected area administration supported by the project. Table 1 provides a
selective overview of four categories of benefits that could be associated with the project.
Given the challenges in assigning monetary benefits to the entire range of economic benefits
generated by the project, only one specific benefit was included in the quantitative ex-post
economic assessment. For this project, the ex-post economic analysis was based on the
generation of positive landscape and watershed services through the significant, 10-fold extension
of the PA system in the country. Other economic benefits not included are, for example,
increased sequestration of GHG by forest ecosystems, avoiding GHG emissions through
deforestation and forest degradation, biodiversity values, bequest values, and several more.
Further, the economic benefits included in the analysis were strictly limited to those immediately
generated and associated with the project. Other beneficial effects, such as, future improvements
of forest and other ecosystem management due to capacity building of PA administration are not
included.




4
  http://www.esa.org/education_diversity/pdfDocs/ecosystemservices.pdf
5
  Nunes, P.A.L.D. and J.C.J.M. van den Bergh. “Economic Valuation of Biodiversity: Sense or Nonsense?” Ecological
Economics, 2001, vol. 39, issue 2, pages 203-222
6
   Ecosystem valuation is a difficult and controversial task, and economists have often been criticized for trying to put
a “price tag” on nature. However, agencies in charge of protecting and managing natural resources must often make
difficult spending decisions that involve tradeoffs in allocating resources. These types of decisions are economic
decisions, and thus are based, either explicitly or implicitly, on society’s values. Therefore, economic valuation can be
useful, by providing a way to justify and set priorities for programs, policies, or actions that protect or restore
ecosystems and their services. http://www.ecosystemvaluation.org/1-02.htm




                                                          26
Table 1: Non-exhaustive selection of economic benefits generated by the project

             Tangible                                       Intangible
 Direct      • Improved watershed services (e.g.            • Reduction in soil erosion
               for drinking water, hydropower               • Reduction in deforestation
               generation, etc.)                            • Afforestation / reforestation
             • Increase in qualified jobs                   • Increase of trees in the agricultural landscape
                                                            • Biodiversity conservation
                                                            • Reduction in GHG emissions
 Indirect    • Reduced pressure on protected areas           • Enhancing institutional mechanisms in support
             • Increased resilience to external                of decentralization and delivery of public
               shocks                                          services by the protected areas administration
                                                             • Strengthened self-governance capacity of
                                                               communities and community groups

As stated above, selected benefits included in the quantitative economic analysis are those that
can be directly and most immediately associated with project implementation. While this
especially applies to economic development impacts, it is also a criterion for the environmental
impact selected for this analysis. This approach ensures that the results of the economic analysis
and quantitative simulation are robust and credible, and that they stay strictly within the project’s
accounting stance.
Intangible and Intrinsic Value of Forest Conservation
A number of studies on the valuation of ecosystems can be found in the economic literature. The
results vary significantly depending on the region, type of ecosystem or ecosystem service and
data availability. A study by Costanza et al. (1997), estimated the economic value of global
ecosystem services at US$33 trillion per year (by comparison, global GDP is around US$18
trillion). 7 Due to numerous uncertainties related to the assumptions, the value produced by the
study is considered to be a lower bound estimate. Other studies have focused on targeted and
site-specific estimation as global aggregates do not take into account local variation.
Tangible, Indirect Value of Ecosystem Goods and Services
According to Kubiszewski et al. (2011), there is considerable variability in ecosystem service
values delivered by different land cover types. On a per hectare basis, inland wetlands are
estimated to provide one of the highest annual values with US$14,183/ha/year, out of which
water provision and “regulating services” constituted the largest share with US$11,988/ha/year.
For forests, water provision and regulating services were estimated at US$6,686/ha/year. In
comparison, Pearce (2001) states watershed benefits for tropical forests at a range of US$15-850
ha/year. At the other end of the value spectrum, grasslands and orchards provide the lowest
annual values with total estimated values of U$1,548/ha/year and US$1,200/ha/year, respectively.
Multiplying these annual per hectare values by their respective share in the ecosystem
demonstrates the potentially huge economic benefit of conserving and sustainably managing
these ecosystems – simply based on these tangible, though indirect, economic values.



7
  Costanza, R., R. d'Arge, R. de Groot, S. Farber, M. Grasso, B. Hannon, K. Limburg, S. Naeem, R. V. O'Neill, J.
Paruelo, R. G. Raskin, P. Sutton, M. van den Belt. (1997) “The Value of the World's Ecosystem Services and Natural
Capital.” Nature 387: 253-260.




                                                       27
          Methodology chosen for the Economic Analysis

Cost-Benefit-Analysis was applied to conduct the economic efficiency assessment for this project.
Sensitivity analysis is applied for the main simulation parameters notably the discount rate,
carbon price, and watershed benefit increments. For the discount rate, alternative rates of 2%, 5%,
10%, and 20% are applied. To test the robustness of initial results, agricultural yields, watershed
benefits, and carbon benefits are reduced by 50% in subsequent analysis. First, these reductions
are executed separately to test the individual impact of these benefit components on overall
results. In a last step, these reductions are combined. All sensitivity analyses are run for all four
discount rate scenarios. The results of the quantitative results are complemented with qualitative
benefits to conclude overall project feasibility.
As required for economic analysis of projects, a With and Without project situation is used for
estimating incremental benefits generated by the project. 8 Taking into account the current
situation, and the fact that the environmental as well as livelihoods situation in project areas is
likely to continue to decline, even a slowing of an already negative trend represents a project
benefit. For example, slowing deforestation and forest degradation is a benefit that can be
quantified by the amount of incremental carbon that is not emitted into the atmosphere compared
to the without project situation. Likewise, if household income remains stable under a With
project situation compared to a possible negative trend from declining agricultural productivity,
deforestation, climate change, and other possible impact factors, this also represents an
incremental benefit achieved by the project. The Net Present Value (NPV) and Benefit-Cost
Ratio (B/C-Ratio) are used as criteria to assess the economic feasibility of the project.
A 15-year period is assumed in assessing the economic feasibility of the project. While project
costs are incurred only during the 5-year project implementation period (i.e. through a linear
disbursement schedule), benefits are assumed to be generated beyond the lifetime of the project.
However, it is assumed that there are no further incremental changes in benefits beyond the
immediate project implementation period. This is a rather conservative assessment as it is likely
that some of the momentum created by the project, for example through the increased
administrative capacity, these benefits will continue to compound relative to a “without” project
situation. To align project benefits and costs in the present value calculation, a discount rate
needs to be determined as describe above.
          Simulations and Results
A range of simulations were run to assess economic feasibility, including robustness checks
simulating benefit and discount rate variations. As the overall analysis is only based on the
monetary quantification of watershed benefits, these additional analyses allow for a more
thorough conclusion regarding project feasibility. Sensitivity analyses were also conducted using
alternative benefit values and discount rates.
Overall, results demonstrate the robustness of the analysis and confirm a positive economic
impact by the project. Simulation results using alternative assumptions confirm that the
economic benefits are indeed (robustly) positive. Only in the extreme case of a 50% reduction in
benefits, coupled with high discount rates, does the benefit-cost ratio fall below one. Given this



8
  For a more detailed discussion of the “with and without” principle in project analysis and evaluation, please refer to
(a) Gittinger, J.P. (1984): Economic Analysis of Agricultural Projects, The World Bank pages 41-43 and (b) Belli, P. et
al. (2001): Economic Analysis of Investment Operations, The World Bank Institute, The World Bank, pages 17-24.




                                                          28
conservative assessment, and that many economic benefits are excluded, true economic returns
are likely to be much higher. Numerical results of economic simulations are summarized in
Table 2 below.
Table 2: Numerical Summary of Economic Simulation Results

                           Benefits
                           Baseline                 Baseline (-20%)         Baseline (-50%)
 Discount Rate             NPV          BC-Ratio    NPV         BC-Ratio    NPV         BC-Ratio
 5%                        13,452,235   2.4         9,350,154   1.920       3,197,034   1.200
 10%                       8,816,277    1.9         6,018,595   1.545       1,822,071   0.966
 20%                       4,184,197    1.4         2,711,494   1.097       502,438     0.686
 NPV = Net Present value; BC-Ratio = Benefit Cost Ratio

        Discussion
The ex-post economic efficiency analysis conducted for the project confirms the anticipated
positive economic impact. The results of the quantitative simulations are also robust across a
range of sensitivity analyses assuming significant changes in discount rates and key benefit
parameters. Throughout the analysis, it was emphasized that benefit assumptions were always
done conservatively using lower-bound values of associated non-market benefits attributed to the
project.
The quantitative analysis was also strictly limited to values that can be clearly attributed to the
project. In addition, to the watershed benefits generated by the project, additional benefits can be
associated such as biodiversity conservation, GHG sequestration and avoiding additional GHG
emissions. There are also the economic benefits arising from better public service delivery
resulting from the capacity building efforts. Further, it was assumed that benefits would remain
level beyond project implementation, even though it is likely that its positive effects will continue
to generate benefits in the future. If additional and downstream project benefits had been
considered, the simulations would have yielded even stronger results.
One of the most important unstated economic impacts relates to the capacity building of
government institutions at central and decentralized levels. The enhanced capacities of
government institutions will improve public service delivery. Given the continuing challenges of
natural resource management – not least due to climate change – the aspect of an enhanced
functioning of public institutions cannot be underestimated, particularly in a “with” and “without”
project scenario. This increased capacity will also help facilitate the implementation of future
projects and investments that can build on and continue the achievements of this project. Similar
considerations apply to knowledge generation and management achieved by the project.
In summary, based on this economic evaluation, it is concluded that the project as resulted in
significant positive development impacts. The consideration of only a few of these benefits in the
quantitative analysis yielded positive economic results. The achieved economic benefits comply
largely with what was anticipated during the design stage. This supports the design and
implementation aspects of the project, in particular the selection of investment activities. It
demonstrates that investments in sustainable natural resource management can significantly
contribute to the economic development of ambitious transition economies, such as BiH, as they
generate and safeguard important direct environmental services and can foster economic
development.




                                                   29
Incremental Cost Analysis
An incremental cost analysis was conducted at the time of preparation and demonstrated, to the
satisfaction of the GEF, that the project, compared to the “without project” scenario, would be an
efficient means for BiH to strengthen its institutional and technical capacity for sustainable
protected area and natural resource management; and to expand the BiH network of forest and
mountain protected areas. The GEF Alternative cost US$ 6 million, of which US$ 3.4 million
would be provided by GEF. The GEF Alternative would: (i) support PAs via fundamental
planning assistance and financing infrastructure for the establishment of new PAs; (ii) promote
and increase public awareness of biodiversity conservation; and (iii) strengthen the capacity to
conserve and manage biodiversity at local, national and trans-boundary levels and establish
regional cooperation for forest and mountain ecosystem conservation. This would include
establishing ecologically-effective PAs, integrating biodiversity conservation into forestry and
other activities in and around PAs, improving monitoring of threatened flora and fauna, and effect
their recovery, and building public awareness of BiH’s biodiversity. The positive results
generated by the project would avoid loss of biodiversity and ecological corridors necessary to
maintain viability of populations and ecosystems, and would increase revenues from forest
resources, improve forest management, and enhance developmental benefits through participatory
approaches in forest land use planning.
The baseline scenario envisaged that, regardless of the Government's commitment to biodiversity
conservation, without the establishment of an extended network of PAs of sufficient size,
biodiversity-rich natural ecosystems would not be sufficiently protected from the major
transition-related threats that are anticipated over the short and medium term. Efforts would
likely continue to focus on limited investment in existing NPs, and on small PAs, which, while
helpful and valid in their own right, would be of questionable viability in terms of establishing
larger national coverage of protected landscapes. Government would be unable to commit
sufficient budget to establish new PAs and strengthen the management of existing National Parks,
and existing Government agencies and NGO groups concerned with conservation would remain
weak, ineffective, uncoordinated and isolated. In the absence of this project, expected impacts
(resulting from changing land use, including forestry and tourism) would result in a loss of
biodiversity, and ecological corridors necessary to maintain viability of populations and
ecosystems may be irreversibly disrupted. The estimated cost of the baseline scenario was US$ 1
million, which was the average annual total budget contribution from central and local authorities
for all PAs in BiH at the time of appraisal.
The Project’s incremental cost calculation was based on the general guidelines contained in GEF
guidance on calculating Incremental Cost. These guidelines define the principle of “incremental
cost” as “a measure of the future economic burden on [a] country that would result from its
choosing the GEF-Alternative in preference to the course of action would have been sufficient in
the national interest.” Based on an assessment of the global and national costs/benefits associated
with each scenario, the total GEF-Alternative cost was calculated to be US$ 6 million, with
incremental costs totaling US$ 5 million. In recognition of the fact that BiH would realize some
national benefits from incremental expenditures, the Government offered to co-finance the
Project by US$ 2.5 million, while US$ 0.1 million would be leveraged by grant recipients as
parallel co-financing. GEF support of US$ 3.4 million provided the balance of incremental costs.




                                                30
Table 3. Incremental Cost Matrix at Project Appraisal and Completion
                                                        At Appraisal (US$)                                                At Completion (US$)
                            Baseline Cost                 Incremental Cost              Total                         Incremental Cost              Total
                                                                          Grant Rec Co-                                               Grant Rec
Component                                   GEF Grant      Gov Co-finance finance                      GEF Grant       Gov Co-finance Co-finance
Protected Areas
Development                                   1,800,000        1,500,000        -          3,300,000      2,162,702         3,035,298      -          5,198,000
Capacity and Support for
Biodiversity Conservation     1,000,000         890,000          760,000        -          1,650,000       790,385           839,615       -          1,630,000
Local Initiatives Grants                        380,000          -              80,000      460,000        424,913           -            150,000      574,913
Contingencies                                   330,000          250,000        10,000      590,000         -                -             -                -
TOTAL                                        3,400,000        2,510,000        90,000    6,000,000       3,378,000         3,874,913     150,000     7,402,913



Overall, the incremental cost analysis estimate was accurate, as the incremental costs incurred as
a result of Project activities utilized nearly 100% of the GEF grant, and the co-financing and grant
recipient contributions were exceeded. Given the acknowledgement of the broad Project
achievements, from a cost-efficiency perspective, the Project achieved a satisfactory result.




                                                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
             Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
                                                                                 Environmental
Tijen Arin                        Senior Environmental Economist       EASER
                                                                                   Economist
David A. Bontempo                       Operations Analyst             MNSPS         Co-TTL
Vesna Francic                        Senior Operations Officer         ECSUW    Operations Officer
Marie Simone Lecocq                      Forestry Specialist           ECSSD    Forestry Specialist
Jessica Mott                   Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist            Task Team Leader
Christian Albert Peter             Lead Environmental Specialist       LCSEN    Task Team Leader
Patrizia Poggi                             E T Consultant              ECCBK
Jesus Renzoli                                Consultant                SASGP       Procurement
Radhika Srinivasan                       Sr Social Scientist           OPSFC     Social Safeguards
                                                                                  Environmental
John W. Fraser Stewart         Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist   CPFIA
                                                                                     Specialist
                                                                                   Disbursement
Siew Chai Ting                            Lead Finance Officer         CTRLD
                                                                                     Specialist
                                                                                     Financial
Sanjay N. Vani                 Lead Financial Management Specialist OPSOR
                                                                                   Management
Supervision/ICR
Samra Bajramovic                         Program Assistant             ECCBM   Program Assistant
Nandita Jain                                Consultant                 ECSEN    NRM Specialist
Nathalie Johnson               Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist   ECSEN   Task Team Leader
Mirjana Karahasanovic                    Operations Officer            ECSEN   Operations Officer
Nikola Kerleta                        Procurement Specialist           ECSO2     Procurement
Robert Kirmse                               Consultant                  CESI2  Forestry Specialist
                                                                             ICR TTL and Primary
Solvita Klapare                         Environmental Economist        ECSEN
                                                                                    Author
Esma Kreso                            Environmental Specialist         ECSEN    Env Safeguards
Klas Sander                         Sr Environmental Economist         LCSEN    Env Economist
Srecko Latal                                 Consultant                ECSSD
                                                                                   Financial
Lamija Marijanovic                Financial Management Specialist      ECSO3
                                                                                 Management

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                  8.59                      41.32
  FY05                                                  9.90                      42.26
  FY06                                                 14.55                      68.78
  FY07                                                 21.85                     142.71
  FY08                                                 22.60                     126.84
                               Total:                  77.49                     421.91



                                                  32
Supervision/ICR
 FY07
 FY08
 FY09                           14.00   109.20
 FY10                           14.30    77.10
 FY11                           14.00    84.38
 FY12                           16.70    72.40
 FY13                           17.60    72.10
 FY14                           13.37    58.40
                  Total:        89.97   473.58




                           33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
A social assessment / beneficiary survey to evaluate the level of support to PAs was carried in
FBiH in October 2013. The main goal of the assessment was to collect quantitative data from
population residing in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’ and the NP ‘Blidinje’ on their experiences and
opinions of the FMPAP project and PAs in general. One of the key goals of the assessment was to
assess whether there had been significant changes in the achievement of a PDO level indicator
related to the public support of the project activities in relation to the results of the baseline study,
conducted in 2008.
Below is a summary of the assessment, and a full report is available in Project files.
Table 1. Basic polling data
Time of interviews                October 17-21, 2013
Data collection method            Personal face-to-face interviews in the interviewees' households
                                  The questionnaire was developed by the consultant on the basis of the
Tools
                                  same questionnaire used in the 2008 study
                                  The inhabitants of the project area who live within a 10 mile radius of
Polled population
                                  the area covered by the Project
Sample size                       400 participants, 200 in the NP ‘Una’, and 200 in the NP ‘Blidinje’
                                  A convenient sample of citizens who live in the area covered by the
Representativeness
                                  Project
Main findings
Awareness and support of the Project. Approximately two out of three respondents (67%) were
familiar with the project activities. Participants who lived in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’
significantly more often (85%) stated that they are familiar with the afore-mentioned activities in
relation to the participants who lived in the vicinity of the NP ‘Blidinje’ (49%). Participants have
most often heard of the project activities from friends, family, or neighbors or via television. The
majority of participants or 82.8% stated that they support activities, which protect forest and
mountainous regions. Although generally strong, support of the project activities was somewhat
stronger in the vicinity of the NP ‘Blidinje’ in relation to the areas in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’.
Participants in the second round of research (2013) significantly more often expressed support of
project activities than was the case in the first round of research.




                                                   34
Chart 1. In general, what is your opinion of implemented activities? Do you strongly support,
mostly support, mostly oppose, or are completely opposed to these activities?
                     100,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    82,8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    95,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70,5
                      80,0




                                   56,0
                                  54,0

                                  52,0



                                                                                        43,0
                      60,0




                                                                                     28,8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22,5
                      40,0




                                                                                  14,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13,0
                                                                                                                                               11,5



                                                                                                                                                                                          11,0
                                                                                                                                              7,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7,0
                                                                                                                                                                                         5,5
                      20,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4,3
                                                                                                                                             3,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,5
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,0
                        ,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Does not know/Does
                                                                                                                                                                                             Strongly oppose
                                                                                                                                                Somewhat oppose




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL Oppose
                                            Strongly support



                                                                                            Somewhat support




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               not wish to answer
                                                                                            All respondents                                                                           NP Una                                             PP Blidinje
Ecology, tourism, and the potential increase in employment were emphasized as the main reasons
for support of project activities.
Chart 2. Which are the three main reasons due to which you support the implemented activities?
Multiple answers possible! Only for participants who support the activities
 100,0
                                                                                                               All respondents                                                                                 NP Una                                                   PP Blidinje
            71,1




  80,0
         61,0



                         59,5
                        56,5
                       52,5
           47,5




  60,0
                                  43,2
                                  42,9
                                  42,6


                                                                      29,1




  40,0
                                                                  17,5



                                                                                                         14,7




                                                                                                                                                                    13,7
                                                                                                                                                12,6
                                                                                                       10,6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                          10,0
                                                                                                                                              9,4




  20,0
                                                               8,9




                                                                                                                                                                  8,2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6,9



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,7
                                                                                                     5,0


                                                                                                                                             5,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,1
                                                                                                                                                                   ,7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0
    ,0
                                                                                                               Improved economic situation
                                                               Development of settlement,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Future (children)
                                                                                                                                                                   Preserving biodiversity
                                                                                                                                               Other




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        park/recreation opportunities
                                   Increased employment
                        Tourism




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Agriculture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Better life




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Health
           Ecology




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Protection of the area




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sales


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DK/NA
                                                                  municipality or area




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Arrangment of the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              for local residents




Various bans, confiscations of land, and the ban of cutting down wood were stated as the most
important reasons due to which participants object to project activities.




                                                                                                                                                                  35
Chart 3. What are the three main reasons due to which you are opposed to these activities?
Multiple answers possible.
       100,0




                                               100,0
        80,0




                 53,3
                48,1


                                     44,2




                                                                                                                                                       42,9
        60,0




                                   35,6


                                                                   31,1


                                                                                                28,9
                                                                  28,8


                                                                                                26,9
        40,0




                                                                                                                               15,4
                            14,3




                                                               14,3


                                                                                             14,3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14,3
                                                                                                                              11,1


                                                                                                                                                                  11,1
                                                                                                                                                                  9,6



                                                                                                                                                                                            8,9
                                                                                                                                                                                            7,7



                                                                                                                                                                                                                6,7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,8


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,8
        20,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,9
                                                                                                                                                                                 ,0


                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,0


                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,0
          ,0




                                                                                                                                                                  Prohibition of hunting
                                                                 Confiscation of land


                                                                                                 Logging prohibition
                                      Other
                  Prohibitions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prohibition of animal
                                                                                                                                                                                           Prohibition of
                                                                                                                                   It is not going to work




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sarajevo Canton and



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Increase of poverty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DK/NA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      state would have all
                                                                                                                                                                                            agricultural
                                                                                                                                                                                            production




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      husbandry
                                                                                                                                                                       and fishing
                                                                  All respondents                                                                            NP Una                        PP Blidinje

Although the majority of participants stated that they possess certain information about project
activities, the majority of participants also expressed interest in becoming better informed about
this subject, especially participants of the region in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’. Although the
difference in interest was not great, participants in the second round of research were less
interested in finding out more about the activities within the NP ‘Una’ and the NP ‘Blidinje’. In
general, the majority of participants expressed interest in participating in the planning and making
of important decisions related to the project activities in the future, in the region of the NP ‘Una’
and the NP ‘Blidinje’ - participants living in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’ to a greater extent than
participants living in the vicinity of the NP ‘Blidinje’. Although the interest in participation in
planning and decision making related to activities in the NP ‘Una’ and the NP ‘Blidinje’ is still
high, participants in the previous round of research were still interested to a greater extent in
participating in such activities in relation to the first round of research.
Chart 4. To what extent are you, as one of the citizens of the regions which gravitate in the
protected area of the NP Una/NP Blidinje interested in participating in the planning and
bringing about of all important decisions connected to various activities?
               100,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          79,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             60,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        59,0




                80,0
                                       50,0




                                                                                                                              43,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38,5
                                                                          34,5




                60,0
                                                                         32,0
                                                                         29,5


                                                                                                                           27,3
                                   27,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18,0
                                                                                                                                                                 17,0




                40,0
                                                                                                                                                                11,8
                                                                                                                        11,5



                                                                                                                                                               6,5
                                                         4,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                2,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,5




                20,0
                   ,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL Interested
                                                                                                                         Somewhat not




                                                                                                                                                                                                wish to answer
                                                                                    Somewhat




                                                                                                                                                                  Not interested at




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL Not
                                                                                                                                                                                                know/Does not
                                       Very interested




                                                                                    interested




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       interested
                                                                                                                           interested




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Does not
                                                                                                                                                                         all




                All respondents NP Una                                                                                 PP Blidinje

Profit from tourism. According to the results of the survey, the majority of households in the
project areas stated that they did not profit from tourism. Those who profited, most often profited
from the sale of food, as well as herbs and plants to tourists. In relation to the first round of



                                                                                                                                                             36
research, a somewhat greater percentage of participants in the second round of research stated
that they profit from the sale of food to tourists and from the sale of herbs and plants. A
relatively low percentage of participants believed that they will be able to profit more from
tourism in the near future. The majority of participants who had dealt with some of the activities
on the basis of which they profited from tourism stated that the support of the municipality and
the tourism community would help them the most to engage in these activities more. A little over
half of the participants found that support from business associations are important in this context,
while a little less than half mentioned personal financial as well as external financial sources as
important.
Chart 5. Out of the choices below, what would help you to participate in these activities? Just
answer „Yes“!
         100,0
                   100,0




                                                                    100,0
                    79,2




                                     79,2

                                     97,4




                                                                                            92,3




                                                                                                                               97,4




                                                                                                                                                    97,4
                                    67,7
                  66,1




          80,0




                                                                                                                                                                            56,4
                                                      51,5




                                                                              44,6




                                                                                                   41,6




                                                                                                                                      38,6
          60,0




                                                                                                                                                                31,7
                                                             21,0
          40,0




                                                                                                                                                             16,1
                                                                                     14,5




                                                                                                                                             1,6
                                                                                                          6,5
          20,0
            ,0


                                                                                  investments
                   Support of the




                                     Support of the




                                                                                                          External financing




                                                                                                                                      persons engaged in
                                                      Support of the local




                                                                                                                                                                 Training
                   tourist board




                                      municipality




                                                                                                                                       Partnerships with

                                                                                                                                       similar acitivities
                                                                                    Personal
                                                         associations
                                                           business




             All respondents              NP Una              PP Blidinje

The project's potential influence. The majority of participants believed that the project had
generally a positive influence on their families and households, on the area in which they live, as
well as on the municipality in which they reside. Nevertheless, in relation to the first round of
research, the number of participants who stated the proclamation of these regions as protected
zones has had a negative effect on the economic situation of their households in these regions has
increased.




                                                                             37
Chart 6. Do you think the proclaiming of the NP Una/NP Blidinje as protected zones has had a
very negative economic effect, a mostly negative effect, a mostly positive effect, a very positive
effect, or no economic effect whatsoever on your family/household? Comparison between the two
rounds of research
           100,0
                                                                                                              Wave 1                       Wave 2
                                                                                                                                                75,5
            80,0

            60,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39,4
            40,0                                                                                                                                      34,0
                                                                                      29,6
                                                                                                                                                                                       22,2
            20,0                                                                               10,8                       9,7                                                                                                                            13,5
                      ,9 3,8                           3,5 3,8                                                               2,8                                                          3,5                          4,47,5
              ,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL Negative



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL Positive
                                                               Mainly negative




                                                                                                                                                        No influence



                                                                                                                                                                                         DK/DA
                                                                                                                           Very positive
                                                                                           Mainly positive
                      Very negative




                                                                                                                            influence
                        influence




                                                                                             influence
                                                                 influence




Approximately half of the participants believed that the project activities have not influenced
employment opportunities in the region they live in. Nevertheless, a little over a third of the
participants believed that the project activities have brought about an increase in employment
opportunities.
The perception of threats and the endangerment of the natural environment. A relatively low
percentage of participants were aware of the potential threats and factors which could endanger
the natural environment in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’ and NP ‘Blidinje’. Participants who
stated that they are aware of certain factors which endanger the natural environment in the place
they live or in close proximity to it, most often stated the discarding of waste as such a factor.
Chart 7. Can you state the factors?
                   100,0
                                       100,0
                                        68,4
                                      57,1




                    80,0
                    60,0
                                                                                    30,0
                                                                                  18,4
                                                                                 14,3



                                                                                                              14,3



                                                                                                                                        14,3




                    40,0
                                                                                                             10,5



                                                                                                                                       10,5




                                                                                                                                                                       10,0
                                                                                                                                                                       7,9
                                                                                                                                                                       7,1



                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5,3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,6




                    20,0
                      ,0
                                        Littering, landfills



                                                                                   Other




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Industrial objects
                                                                                                                                           Poaching




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Landslide,
                                                                                                                                                                        Wood cutting
                                                                                                               Drainage




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          mudslide




                                                                   All respondents                                            NP Una                           PP Blidinje

All participants who were aware of threats to the natural environment stated that they would like
the factors that endanger the natural environment in the regions where the live to be prevented in
the future. Stricter punishment for endangering the natural environment was considered the best
way to prevent its endangerment, as well as proper garbage disposal.
Evaluation of the influence of the preemption law. Approximately half of the participants stated
that the introduction of the preemption law would present a problem to them – more often



                                                                                                                              38
participants living in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’ than those from the vicinity of the NP ‘Blidinje’.
A little less than half of the participants stated that limitations regarding the building of new
construction facilities and the reconstruction of already-existing facilities would represent a
problem, while a little over half stated that limitations as regards the usage of forests and other
natural resources would have a negative influence on the economic situation of their households,
as well as the village and place in which they live. Furthermore, a little over half of the
participants saw improvements in the form of the increase of some other business possibilities in
the proclamation of the NP ‘Una’/NP ‘Blidinje’ protected zones. Although participants in the
second round of research also more often expressed opinions that there were improvements as
well as deteriorations in employment opportunities during the protection of these regions, the
answer that the proclamation of these regions as protected zones did not influence employment
opportunities was almost twice as prevalent in the second round in relation to the first round of
research.
Chart 8. However, the proclamation of the NP Una/NP Blidinje regions as protected zones would
probably open up some other business opportunities. All in all, do you have the feeling that all of
this could bring about improvements or deteriorations in your current living conditions, or do
you think that this would have no influence on the living conditions in which you currently
reside? Comparison between the two rounds of research
             100,0
                                                    Wave 1                 Wave 2
              80,0

              60,0                         54,5
                        45,4
              40,0                                                                                   33,3   31,5
                                                                               18,3
              20,0                                                  10,3
                                                  4,7
                                                                                                                       2,0
                ,0
                            Improvements




                                                        Worsening




                                                                                      No influence




                                                                                                               DK/NA




Resolving conflicts and trust. The majority of participants from the project regions did not have
experience with the collaborative resolving of conflicts. Participants who have had such
experiences most often stated that these were conflicts about land and livestock. The afore-
mentioned conflicts have still not been resolved, and are resolved by judicial proceedings. As
regards to making decisions about their neighborhood or the community in which they live,
participants commonly placed their trust in the municipal authorities. The other levels of
government, as well as individuals and organizations were state much less often as regards the
trust of the citizens of these regions when it came to making important decisions.
Basic demographic data of households. The households in the project regions of the NP ‘Una’
and the NP ‘Blidinje’ have two or three members on average. These regions are populated by
approximately the same number of men and women. The age structure of these regions is
generally balanced, with the proviso that a relatively high percentage of citizens older than the
age of 55 is noticeable, especially in the NP ‘Una’. Almost two thirds of the members of
households in these regions are married. In contrast, every fourth member of these households
has never been married. The percentage of members of households who are divorced and those
who are widowers or widows is relatively low. As regards to education, approximately every


                                                                      39
fourth person of age in these regions has completed elementary school only or less. Nevertheless,
97.7% of the participants of these regions have completed high school, and some have begun
college or a higher education program. A little over 5% of the citizens of age of these regions are
college graduates. As regards to employment, a little over a third of the citizens of project
regions older than the age of 15 are employed, either full-time or part-time, in agriculture or in
their own businesses. From these, every fourth person is permanently employed, while every
fourth person is unemployed as well.
Forestry and other activities. Almost 0.3% of participants of the project regions above age 15 are
employed in forestry or state that forestry is one of their sources of income. As regards to various
activities which households perform for their own needs, the chopping up of firewood is
emphasized as the most frequent, followed by the much less frequent collecting of forest fruits,
mushrooms, and herbs. Participants most often profit from the production and sale of honey,
fresh meat, as well as butterfat and butter. According to the participants' evaluations, it seems
that the best profit comes from the sale of livestock and the sale of honey.
Owning land. Almost two out of three interviewed households owned parcels of land in the
project region, followed by grassland, and forests and pastures. The land is often not registered
as the property of these households. Relatively very few parcels of land have been bought, which
points to the conclusion that the majority of this land is either inherited or obtained in some other
way, excluding purchasing. The most area is covered by forests and pastures. Only two
participants stated that they would sell some of the land- this being arable fields. Also, only two
participants stated that they owned some mined land in the forest.
Livestock breeding. Participants of project regions rarely dealt with livestock breeding and
generally did not have much livestock. On average, they owned the greatest number of sheep and
chicks, followed by cows and pigs, whilst goats and rabbits are the least represented. Very few
participants who owned livestock, between 7-10%, stated that they currently own more livestock
in relation to the period of four years ago. A smaller number of participants expressed the
intention of increasing the total number of livestock which they own.
Forestry and legislation. Generally, the majority of participants perceived that a significant part
of forests (a min. of 25% to 50%) within the project areas were being illegally cut down. In
contrast, approximately a fourth of the participants stated that the forests were not being cut down
illegally. Furthermore, almost three out of four participants stated that laws which would limit or
ban the cutting down of forests would not influence the income of their households at all.
Participants living in the vicinity of the NP ‘Una’ were more inclined to state that the income of
their households would significantly decrease in the case of the adoption of the afore-mentioned
law, in relation to the participants living in the vicinity of the NP ‘Blidinje’ 9.




9
  Based on the law on NP 'Una', no commercial forest activities, incl.tree cutting is allowed within park boundaries.
However, 30-35% of forests within the park are privately owned and in these areas wood harvesting is allowed for own
needs of owners' households, following procedures that require a permit from the NP management. Tree cutting in the
publicly owned forests is prohibited, except for sanitary cleaning of the trees. While high level of surveillance is
provided by forest guards and rangers in the NP territory, illegal cutting could not been completely eliminated, and
based on the NP ‘Una’ management, may still take place in the peripheral parts of the villages adjacent to or within the
park boundaries, but only in small quantities. Another fact to consider is that the park was established 3 years ago, and
before, due to depopulation, the area was overgrown and, with park establishment, required gradual cleaning to protect
original biodiversity.




                                                           40
Chart 9. In the case of the adoption of laws which would limit to a significant degree or
completely ban the cutting down of forest in this area, to what extent would this influence the
income of your household?
                100,0




                           72,8




                                                                                                          78,5
                                                                       67,0
                 80,0
                 60,0




                                                                                                                 17,5
                                                                                             16,5
                                  10,8
                 40,0




                                                                                    10,5
                                                           8,3
                                         5,8




                                                                              4,0




                                                                                                                                      3,0
                                                                 2,5




                                                                                                    2,0




                                                                                                                        1,0
                 20,0
                   ,0




                                         All respondents




                                                                                                                        PP Blidinje
                                                                                    NP Una
                                         Nothing would change
                                         Your income would decrease a little
                                         Your income would decrease significantly
                                         You would be left without any income
                                         DK/NA


Conclusions
The majority of participants of the project areas supported the project activities. As the most
common reasons for support of the project activities, care for the ecosystems of these regions,
tourism, as well as the possibility that employment could consequentially increase in these
regions are mentioned. However, a third of the citizens stated that they were not aware of such
activities being conducted. Also, individuals who were aware of the project activities most
commonly received the information from informal sources- from family members, friends, and
neighbors. All of this indicates that it is necessary to take further measures in order for the
citizens of these regions to be better informed about the project activities. The majority of the
participants expressed interest in participating in the planning and making of important decisions
related to the project activities in the future in the regions of the NP ‘Una’ and the NP ‘Blidinje’,
but interest in the afore-mentioned is smaller than it was in the year 2008.
Although a small number of residents of project areas profit from tourism, the number of
individuals who profit from the sale of food, as well as herbs and plants has increased in relation
to the 2008 study. Citizens of these regions were skeptical in their evaluation of the possibilities
of benefiting from tourism in the near future. The majority believed that the project did not have
economic influence on their families, but many believed that it did affect the economy of the
place and municipality in which they live. Approximately half of the participants of the project
regions believed that the project activities did not influence employment opportunities in the
region in which they live. In contrast, a little over a third nevertheless believed that the project
activities brought about an increase in employment opportunities in the project areas.
The assessment implies that the project activities not only maintained the public's support at a
satisfactory level, but they also increased it. It is necessary to further work on informing and
including the citizens in the project activities in order that they may reap the most benefit from
them, be more aware of these activities, and be more satisfied with them. The consequence of all
of this will be better protection of the ecosystems of these areas but also the easier conduction of
project activities, as well as the easier management of potential conflicts in these regions.




                                                                          41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                FOREST AND MOUNTAINOUS PROTECTED AREAS
                            FINAL WORKSHOP

                           Hotel “Mladost”, Restaurant “Jezero“
                              Tjentište, National Park Sutjeska
                     Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, October 7-9, 2013

                                            AGENDA

Day One, Monday, October 7, 2013

12:00 – 12:05   Welcome and introduction, Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and
                Ecology of the Republika Srpska, Mr. Miloš Jokić

12:05 – 12:10   Welcome address, Mr. Senad Oprašić, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
                Relations of BiH

12:10 – 12:15   Welcome address, Mr. Muris Hadžić, Federation Ministry of Environment and Tourism

12:15 – 12:20   Welcome Address, Ms. Nathalie W. Johnson, World Bank

12:20 – 12:25   Welcome Address, Mr. Zoran Čančar, Director of NP Sutjeska

12:25 – 12:55   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project, Ministry of Spatial
                Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology of Republika Srpska, Assistant Minister for
                project coordination and development, Mr. Miloš Jokić

12:55 – 13:25   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project, Federation
                Ministry of Environment and Tourism, Assistant Minister in the Sector for Project
                Implementation Mr. Muris Hadžić

13:25 – 13:40   Coffee break

13:40 – 13:55   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project, JU National Park
                “Kozara”, Director Mr. Dragan Romčević

13:55 – 14:10   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project, ЈU National Park
                “Sutjeska” Director Mr. Zoran Čančar

14:10 – 14:20   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project, JPŠ Šume Srpske,
                ŠG Gorica (Forest Reservation Janj), Director Mr. Jovo Dakić

14:20 – 14:30   Presentation of results and activities implemented under the project JPŠ Šume Srpske,
                JPŠ Šume Srpske, ŠG Oštrelj-Drinić (Forest Reservation Lom), Director MR. Igor
                Kneginić
                Or
                Manager of RJ Kozila, Coordinator on behalf of ŠG for Old-Growth Forest Lom, Mr.
                Sretko Stanković

14:30 – 14:40   Presentation of the sub-project “Organization of “Schools in Nature“ for the purpose of
                protecting bio-diversity of the National Park Kozara”, Mountaineers’’ Association



                                                42
                Klekovača, Prijedor, Sub-Project Director Mr. Duško Vujičić



14:40 – 14:50   Presentation of the sub-project “Construction of eco-center and developing tourist
                offer”, Municipality Petrovac-Drinić, Municipal Mayor Mr. Drago Kovačević

14:50 – 15:00   Presentation of the sub-project “Beekeeping in protected area of old-growth forest
                reservation “Lom-Drinić” and earning income from protected are”, Head of Family
                Agricultural Farm, Construction and Environment of RS, Mr. Novo Pećanac

15:00 – 16:00   Lunch

16:00 – 16:15   Presentation of results and activities under the project PE National Park “Una“,
                Director Mr. Amarildo Mulić

16:15 – 16:30   Presentation of results and activities under the project “Park of Nature“ Blidinje,
                Director Mr. Zdravko Kutle

16:30 – 16:50   Presentation of the sub-project “Return of Bee-Keepers to Blidinje”, Beekeepers’
                Association “Iva” Posušje

16:50 – 17:20   Presentation of the sub-project “Along the paths of medicinal plants“, Municipality
                Bihać in cooperation with several associations

17:20 – 17:50   Presentation of the sub-project “Make a Bosnian carpet“, Women's Association Kulen
                Vakuf

17:50 – 19:00   Discussion and conclusions

19:30           Dinner


Day Two, Tuesday, October 8, 2013
08:30           Breakfast

09:00 – 11:30   Meeting between the World Bank team and Project Implementation Units of both
                ministries
                Topics:
                    •     Obligations related to closing of the project;
                    •     Project Completion Report and Conclusions

12:00 – 16:00   Tour of the National Park „Sutjeska“ for all participants

16:00           Lunch


Day Three, Wednesday, October 9, 2013
08:30           Breakfast

09:00 – 14:00   Tour of the National Park „Sutjeska“ for the World Bank team




                                                  43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Excerpts from the FBIH completion report (a full report available in project files):

Project Evaluation
Achievements of project objectives
The Project is rated satisfactory in achieving its development objectives. All outcome indicator
targets were met, and some exceeded.
The project has achieved its Project Development Objective (PDO) and its Global Environment
Objective (GEO), which was to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity for sustainable
protected area management, and expand the national network of forest and mountain protected
areas. Over the course of the project, areas under protection in BiH have increased by 5 percent
from 0.5% to 5.5% (including High Value Conservation forests and Special Hunting Reserves).
Actual protected area for FBiH is 4.2 % of Federation of BIH, i.e 109.563 ha (or 2.14 % of BiH).
The preparation and implementation of management plans for PAs in FBiH, baseline ecological
assessments for all PAs and the development of M&E systems in each park and the use of the
Protected Areas Management Effectiveness tool on a regular basis have contributed to the
reduction in threat level in the PAs and improved both the effectiveness of park management and
the visitor numbers and revenue collection.
The government of FBiH commitment to the PAs is evidenced by the adequate and consistent
annual budget allocation to cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and research and
monitoring investments. Commitment to PAs on a policy and legislative level is confirmed by the
recently adopted Law on Nature Protection in the Federation (July 2013).
Public support and awareness of the importance of the PAs, specifically their economic and
intrinsic value in FBiH, has been established through the public awareness campaign, the training
provided under the project, as well as the Local Initiatives community grants program. Full
disbursement of the grant was programmed (100%) and all project activities originally planned
have been executed.
Partnership arrangements
The Forest Development and Conservation Project (FDCP) supported implementation of reforms
in forest organization and management. It included support for landscape approaches to forest
planning and management that incorporate improved information systems, conservation values
and stakeholder engagement.
Donor Projects - FMPAP was integrated with FDCP at the conceptual level. The Italian grant of
FDCP supported the direct preparation of FMPAP as well as a number of other relevant studies
and training, while the ongoing IDA financing supported the state forest inventory, Forest
Management Information System, and other initiatives, which were considered part of FMPAP
co-financing.
Implementation
(i) The project became effective in April 2009 with over ten months of delay from the board
approval date. Implementation of the Project was the responsibility of the Entity environmental
ministries lead roles. BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, was the recipient
of the GEF grant and transferred the proceeds to the FBiH and RS Governments by opening two
special accounts. The Sector for Project Implementation within the FBiH Ministry of
Environment and Tourism (MET) has specialized team, called Project Management Unit (PMU)



                                                44
that undertakes core implementation functions including oversight, procurement, financial
management, annual planning, supervision, monitoring of repayments, reporting and evaluation.
(ii) The project was overseen by a Project Guidance Committee (PGC). This comprised the Sub-
Committee on Biodiversity (established in 2002 and including representatives from academia,
government, and protected areas), GEF Focal Point from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations, PMU managers, and entity representatives from local government, civil
society and the private sector.
Due to changes in government, the project experienced some delays in implementation.
Significant changes and other revisions
a) Mid Term Review (November 8-19, 2010)
Based on the October 2010 desk review, the rating for the PDO and the Implementation Progress
was down-graded due to concerns about PMU performance and capacity, and slower than
expected achievements of project results. This action put the project in “problem project” status
and required the development and agreement on a 90 day action plan to address the critical
issues, and thereby enable a satisfactory rating. The mission expressed some concern over PMU
performance in FBiH (for example, TORs and technical specifications for goods and works have
been inadequate, requiring repeat submissions for Bank no objections).
This led to the change of PMU head and staff, and employment of additional short-time
procurement specialist. Somehow in the same period of project implementation, the Bank team
also changed the Task Team Leader.
b) Project Management Unit (PMU)
Implementation of the FMPAP project was administered by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
comprising a Manager, Procurement Manager, and Financial Officer.
PMU managed to make up for the lost time in delayed project implementation, which occurred
due to the change of PMUs head and staff in the previous period. Once these individuals were in
place implementation proceeded at a rapid pace, works and designs clearly defined,
disbursements accelerated quite significantly. In spite of the difficulties at the beginning of the
project, the project had full disbursement and all project activities originally planned have been
executed. The disbursement rate was raised from 55% in October 2012 to fully disbursement of
the grant on October 2013. All activities had been delivered and project indicators substantially
met. This is a significant achievement given that the project had been only half disbursed some 11
months before the closing date.
The PMU has demonstrated a high degree of dedication and commitment and instrumented
realistic solutions to overcome the delays in the Project.
c) Revised components
(i)Revision and Update of the Project Results Framework.
Since project inception there have been achievements and activities benefiting PA conservation
which were not originally anticipated (e.g., high conservation value forests (HCVF), and new
plans to develop sustainable game management for special hunting areas adjacent to NPs). On the
other hand, it was clear that the original design and expectations did not adequately take into
account political and operational constraints (e.g., delays in on-site operation of NP ‘Una’, low
revenue from non-timber and other sources). Revisions and updates to the results framework have
been proposed to take all of these factors into account.




                                                45
Key proposed agreed revisions were minor and included: (i) recognition of additional types of
PAs in the results indicator for the area under formal protection; (ii) reporting results by calendar
year until one month prior to project closing; and (iii) refining one of outcomes indicators to be
more precise in monitoring between the RS and the Federation, and updating results and targets
where necessary in accordance with the most recent Bank guidelines.
Because the above achievements have basically offset the delays, there were no significant
changes in the levels of the final targets.
(ii) Revised Closing date
An extension of the closing date for 6 months was granted in November 2012 to allow time for
full expenditure of the grant and to accommodate delays in park infrastructure due to inclement
weather. Revised closing date was October 31, 2013.
Assessment of Outcomes
Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rated: Satisfactory
The project‘s objectives, design and implementation remain highly relevant to Bosnia and
Herzegovina development and natural resource management priorities. The project has made
substantial contributions to the improved planning, monitoring and implementation of a highly
diversified protected area and strongly supported and capacitated FBiH agencies for protected
areas.
The design of the project components and activities was well aligned with its objectives. The
number and types of components were fully consistent with the standard organization of
components in most protected area projects. The proposed indicators, while needing revision,
were nonetheless all relevant to measure the proposed outcomes. The number, type and design of
components were well aligned with the intended outcomes. The funded activities were also all
relevant and contributed to the project outcomes as verified during implementation.

Achievement of Global Environment and Project Development Objectives
Rated: Satisfactory
The Project has achieved its Project Development Objective (PDO) and its Global Environment
Objective (GEO), which was to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity for sustainable
protected area management, and expand the national network of forest and mountain protected
areas.
A review of project outputs against the targets for outcome and intermediate outcome indicators
reveals a generally positive outlook for the achievement of the PDO and GEO.

Results achieved - summary of PDO indicator measures.
Outcome Indicators
• As a result of the implementation of the project, the area under formal protection (of various
   types of PA management categories) increased from approximately 0.5% to 5.5% (including
   High Value Conservation forests and Special Hunting Reserves). Actual protected area for
   Federation BiH is 4.2 % of FBiH, i.e. 109.563 ha (or 2.14 % of BiH).
• Red List of threatened plants, animals and fungi in Federation of BIH was completed.
• The Amendment to the Contract was made for the preparation of PAs Maps in B&H and GIS
   data base of all PAs in BiH.




                                                 46
•   As a result of the implementation of the project, key threats to biodiversity and forest
    resources in all protected areas (PAs) have been reduced. Indicator is measured by the PA
    M&E systems and PAME tracking tools.
•   The FBiH Government budget annually allocated EUR 250,000 equivalent and utilized for
    NP ‘Una’ operations in the period from 2011 to 2013 (during project implementation that was
    in total EUR 750,000 equivalent). The government commitment to the PAs is evidenced by
    the adequate and consistent annual budget allocation to cover recurrent expenditures and
    priority capital and research and monitoring investments. The following additional funds
    from the FBiH budget in the total amount of EUR 250,000 equivalent have been annually
    allocated, for support programs for better functioning of other protected areas management in
    the Federation.
•   As a result of project implementation two Management Plans for NP ‘Una’ and NatP
    ‘Blidinje’, which were formally approved by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism and
    adopted by the Government of FBiH are under implementation. Training Course on
    Applications of PAME Tracking Tool in PAs Management was held. Both new NPs are using
    M&E and the PAME tracking tool on a regular basis, to guide and assist more effective PA
    management and improved both the effectiveness of park management and the visitor
    numbers and revenue collection. Visitor numbers in both parks is steadily growing.
•   Public support is reflected through participation in workshops and local initiatives program
    which fosters tremendous support for the PAs.
•   The research on this issue confirmed the percentage of public support for PAs.

Intermediate Outcome Indicators
• One new national park (NP ‘Una’) and one new Nature Park (NatP ‘Blidinje’) were legally
    declared, and ‘Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran’ area was proposed. Feasibility study for PA
    ‘Prenj-Cvrsnica-Cabulja-Vran’ is completed and accepted by Federal Ministry of
    Environment and Tourism. The new Law on Protection of Nature in FBIH is adopted on July
    26, 2013.
• Establishment of New Protected Areas – Igman: Preparation of the ‘Igman-Bjelasnica-
    Treskavica-Visocica’ (IBTV) management plan was expected to start in 2011. A feasibility
    study has been completed (in May 2007 before FMPAP started) and the first draft approved
    by Parliament in February 2012. Due to the lack of a physical plan for Igman, which is a
    precursor to developing a management plan, it has not been possible to initiate this activity.
    Therefore the activity has been dropped from the procurement plan and the resources
    originally allocated have been re-allocated to other priority activities.
• Two protected areas NP ‘Una’ and NatP ‘Blidinje’ have management plans under
    implementation. Management Plans completed and accepted by Federal Ministry of
    Environment and Tourism.
• M&E system, including tracking of key habitat and species, and PAME tracking tool are used
    in all PAs for management planning and decision-making.
• The project developed Facilities in accordance with PA management plans. Priority Facilities
    as identified in management plans were financed and established in all PAs. Facilities for new
    PAs, such as shelters, benches, visitor signs, site enhancement, and other “soft”
    infrastructure, e.g., new trail creation, resting places, viewpoints etc., in NP ‘Una’ and NatP
    ‘Blidinje’ are completed.
• Number of participants completing training programs and positive participant feedback
    exceeded target value (390 for FBIH - 130 % achieved). Training was organized and realized
    very successfully, including workshops, round table sessions and a study tour, with very
    qualified trainers, experts for relevant sectors, as well as trainers from protected areas in
    regions with their experiences in the field. More than 300 participants have attended trainings


                                                47
    and taken active participation in discussions. Technical assistance for trainings included
    review of outcomes, monitoring and evaluation of activities and related reports.
•   Public awareness campaign fully launched and completed. Contract and all planned activities
    for Public awareness Campaign are completed. Program will be continued beyond Project
    closing, using materials and strategy developed under Project.
•   In the last Project period, the Project implementation was timely and well-coordinated. PMU
    managed to make up for the lost time in delayed implementation. All activities from
    Procurement Plan were contracted and completed before revised Closing date on October 31,
    2013.
•   Eight (8) grants for eligible subprojects grants awarded and implemented, and outcome and
    impact evaluation completed. Three (3) grants for NP ‘Una’ and five (5) grants for NatP
    ‘Blidinje’ were successfully completed. Sub-projects achieved objectives based on the
    following criteria: biodiversity conservation, social and economic feasibility and
    sustainability of sub-projects. The realization of sub-projects contributed to public awareness
    rising about the importance of conservation and protection of biodiversity and natural
    resources and contributed to improvement of tourist offer in the protected areas (diverse
    agricultural products, traditional souvenirs, etc.). Sub-projects could be used as an example of
    good practice in other protected areas.

Overall, the project had a satisfactory achievement of its development objectives.

Efficiency
As required for a full-sized GEF project, an incremental cost analysis was done during the project
preparation. Project design has not fundamentally changed and GEF funds are being used to
finance activities of global benefit that would not have taken place without these resources.
Generally, cost levels vs. expected outputs were well estimated at appraisal. Project results were
achieved, or exceeded, with lower total costs from those estimated at appraisal, and therefore the
project can be considered efficient. Compared to similar projects in Eastern Europe, the project
remains cost-effective. Cost levels are within those of projects with comparable approaches and
outcomes.
No formal economic analysis was completed for project implementation.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall PDO/GEO outcomes are rated satisfactory. The PDO/GEO remains highly relevant
for local and global natural resource management and sustainable land management agenda. The
PDO was largely achieved and most planned outputs were delivered efficiently and cost
effectively. Full disbursement of the grant was programmed and all project activities originally
planned have been executed.
Public support and awareness of the importance of the PAs, specifically their economic and
intrinsic value in FBiH, has been established through the public awareness campaign, the training
provided under the project, as well as the Local Initiatives community grants program. The
management of the two parks has been substantially improved. Visitor numbers in both parks is
steadily growing. Over 80,000 hectares of biodiversity rich habitat is being effectively managed
in the two parks (NP ‘Una’ and NatP ‘Blidinje’), with enhanced management interventions,
surveillance and community participation.
The government of FBiH commitment to the PAs is evidenced by the adequate and consistent
annual budget allocation to cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and research and
monitoring investments.


                                                48
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest
The risks identified during project design are generally relevant. The overall risk rating with
mitigation was assessed to be modest and remains so through implementation. The results
framework has been reviewed in light of current and anticipated risks, particularly those
associated with government approvals of plans, appointments, etc. and annual targets modified.
The overall outcomes, however, remain unchanged.
Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank identified an area of support that was and remains relevant to the FBiH environment.
The Project development objective (PDO) of the FMPAP is to strengthen the institutional and
technical capacity for sustainable PA and natural resource management, and expand the BiH
network of forest and mountain PAs.
Project activities targeted highly priority areas identified in the country‘s strategic development
documents. Outcomes (supported by the design) struck an appropriate balance among three key
areas.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank provided continuity in supervision by conducting regular supervision missions.
Actions taken by the Bank during supervision were mostly appropriate, timely and adequate, with
some areas of notable achievement. The Bank set high standards for implementation, and
consistently maintained a long-term vision with a strong focus on results, building capacity,
involving stakeholders and efficient administration. Interim Project Support missions were
organized in response to specific problems in implementation. Supervision was also flexible and
adaptive to emerging realities. The Aide Memoires and the ISRs showed direct involvement in
supervision. Procurement and financial management performance were regularly assessed and, in
the case of procurement, when problems were found these were rectified promptly. The mission
aide-memoires were comprehensive, well prepared and clearly articulated agreed actions for each
project component and, thus, helped ensure that the PDO was achieved.
Based on the October 2010 desk review, the ratings for the PDO and the implementation progress
were down-graded due to concerns about PMU performance and capacity, and slower than
expected achievements of project results. Critical risks were appropriately flagged and addressed
in a timely manner. After the MTR, a “90 day action plan” was agreed to address the critical
issues, and thereby enable a satisfactory rating. The team effectively raised issues affecting the
project to management’s attention and PMU responded actively and speedily to issues raised.
These interventions had succeeded in effectively addressing problems that arose.
Somehow in the same period of Project implementation, the Bank team changed the Task Team
Leader.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                 49
The Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory, based on similar ratings for Ensuring Quality
at Entry and Quality of Supervision, and especially to reflect the timely guidance provided to the
client, both technically and administratively, during project supervision.
Turnover of TTL did not cause slowdown of project performance, on the contrary - clearly
articulated agreed actions plan, revisions and updates to the results framework ensured that the
PDO was achieved, without significant delays or problems in implementation.
The Bank was proactive in responding to client requests and was effective in eventually
developing a mechanism with the client that worked in delivering a multi-sectorial project in a
complex administrative structure with often competing interest and weak Government leadership.
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory given the high quality and responsiveness of
supervision, and the Bank followed up safeguard issues diligently.

Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government of the Federation BiH performance is rated Satisfactory.
At preparation, the government strongly supported the Project and its objectives. However, from
the outset of implementation, the dynamic has shifted somewhat as the country has gone through
elections. Due changes in government, the project has been experiencing some delays in
implementation over the first half-year in 2011. Generally, there was strong support and interest
in the project from the sector Ministry, even though attention shifted to other priorities. These
changes have led to a temporary hiatus that delayed key organizational actions for enabling
proper implementation, as well as delays in pursuing critical legal and institutional adjustments in
reorganizing the administration and functioning of the government sector that were imperative for
the overall direction and success of the Project.
Upon full transfer of responsibilities to the MET, and appointment new PMU team composition
in April 2011, project implementation improved significantly to fully implement of project
activities.
The FBiH Government budget annually allocated EUR 250,000 equivalent and utilized for NP
‘Una’ operations, also reflects the Government’s strong interest in this project. The government
commitment to the PAs is evidenced by the adequate and consistent annual budget allocation to
cover recurrent expenditures and priority capital and research and monitoring investments. The
additional funds from the FBiH budget in the total amount of EUR 250,000 equivalent have been
allocated, for support programs for better functioning of other protected areas management in the
Federation. SIDA has committed resources to publish the Red List book once it is completed. The
Government funding was always timely delivered.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Sector for Project Implementation within the FBiH Ministry of Environment and Tourism
(MET) have a specialized team, called Project Management Units (PMU), that undertook the core
implementation functions, including oversight, procurement, financial management, annual
planning, supervision, monitoring of repayments, reporting and evaluation. After Mid-Term
review and proposed “Action plan”, PMU changed the head and staff, and employed another
short-time procurement specialist. The PMU team was confirmed in its new composition in April
2011.



                                                50
PMU managed to make up for the lost time in delayed project implementation, which occurred
due to the change of PMU’s head and staff in the previous period. Once these individuals were in
place, implementation proceeded at a rapid pace, works and designs clearly defined,
disbursements accelerated quite significantly. In spite of the difficulties at the beginning of the
project, the project had fully disbursed and all project activities originally planned have been
executed. The disbursement rate has been raised from 55% in October 2012 to full disbursement
of the grant on October 2013. All activities had been delivered and project indicators substantially
met. This is a significant achievement given that the project had been only half disbursed some 11
months before the closing date.
The PMU has demonstrated a high degree of dedication and commitment and instrumented
realistic solutions to overcome the delays in the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory, based on ratings for the Government and
the main implementing agency and also based on the dedication, commitment and contribution of
all who participated, including the PA Managers, social promoters, consultants in various range
of project activities who were able to successfully work with and engage beneficiaries in PA
communities that contributed to the project’s achievements.
Lessons Learned
Some key lessons learned from the project include:
(a) An effort should be made to ensure that key stakeholders share the vision of park management
and protection before project effectiveness and throughout project implementation. Decisions
about PA management often elicit strong opinions from a range of stakeholders. To build and
maintain a common understanding across national, provincial and local levels, PA managers must
engage stakeholders in discussions of key goals and strategies before project effectiveness.
Otherwise stakeholder support is often just congealing at the end of the project when investments
and resources dry up too soon to cement the new support. In PAs the park’s commitment to
building local awareness of project activities, the importance of biodiversity to local and national
economies, and the role of communities in co-management established the groundwork for a very
successful project and for the government to extend project activities beyond the Bank’s
involvement.
(b) In order for a project to be successfully implemented, it is necessary to have a full
engagement of the people in charge of direct implementation of project activities, including
environment inter-institutional and inter-sectoral cooperation, planning and reporting, the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets, preparation of TORs and specifications for
goods and works bidding documents, preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports etc.
This can be illustrated by situation with PMU performance and their changes of head and staff
and internal composition. Once these changes were in place, implementation proceeded at a rapid
pace, works and designs clearly defined, disbursements accelerated quite significantly. Both
Entities have a range of laws, regulations and plans that govern nature conservation in the
broadest sense. Procedures for the establishment of PA, including NPs, are laid out, as are the
requirements for their operations. However, some of the constraints experienced by the project
stem from inefficient or contradictory legislative and financing frameworks. While many of these
problems are a consequence of the broader political context, in some cases they also reflect a
traditional dependency on legislative approaches. In FBiH, PA Physical Plans require
parliamentary approval, and the appointment of a NP Director requires cabinet approval. In the
current climate of political uncertainty delays in these and similar decisions appear likely.



                                                51
(c) More attention must be paid to M&E. Adequate attention to M&E design, implementation
and utilization is important for every operation, but is essential for a project that proposes to test a
new modality for park management that would serve as the model for other parks. Capturing
baselines against which to measure progress and test effectiveness are a critical part of project
preparation, and should not be left until later in the project, when this could delay measuring
success and cause the project to capture an inflated baseline rather than the without-project
scenario. By piloting a new system under the project, and being able to confirm that the system
works and improves the management of the park, it was possible to mainstream and expand the
system to other parks – thus increasing the capacities to manage and monitor the park system.
Monitoring system should be simple and focused, so that the user may make changes and add
new, more relevant, variables as identified.
(d) The achievement of project outcomes is only validated by quantitative data put in place by a
strong results framework and monitoring and evaluation system. In this project, one of the
positive aspects of the design was that the project design required monitoring of wildlife in the
parks throughout the project period as well as beneficiary surveys to monitor the opinions of
project beneficiaries.
(e) Creating some alternative income generation opportunities. Facilitation assistance was
provided to design these initiatives so that the process is fair and transparent, and beneficiaries are
assisted in choosing and designing appropriate and feasible activities. Objectives of the sub-
projects – Local initiatives grants, were achieved based on the following criteria: biodiversity
conservation, social and economic feasibility and sustainability of subprojects. The realization of
sub-projects strengthened the cooperation between local stakeholders (especially local
population) and local government and administration of protected areas. The realization of sub-
projects also contributed to public awareness rising about the importance of conservation and
protection of biodiversity and natural resources and contributed to improvement of tourist offer in
the protected areas (diverse agricultural products, traditional souvenirs, etc.). Sub-projects could
be used as an example of good practice in other protected areas. Local initiatives in conservation
could serve as models for accessing other small grant programs such as the entity Eco-Funds and
EU pre-accession instruments. Benefits to the PA system and conservation in the country are
expected from supporting a “learning culture” within the agencies responsible for PA
management so that lessons learned and knowledge generated through the project can be
disseminated to a wider audience. Several project activities supported knowledge transfer,
capacity building and outreach so that lessons learned and experiences gained from the project
can be replicated in different regions of the country.

Proposed arrangements and activities for future operation
The FMPAP should be adapted as a model for PAs management. It should be replicated and
extended to other Protected Areas in the country. The GEF, World Bank and the Ministry of
Environment should seriously consider launching of a Phase-II of FMPAP to stabilize the
achievements of the concluded project. This project should keep in view the lessons learnt in
FMPAP implementation. Capacities for PA management, even though improved through
FMPAP, are still weak.
Priority activities for biodiversity conservation in FBiH to be considered for the preparation of
future GEF projects
1. Development of Red Books - Development of Red Lists was supported within the FMPAP. The
next step in this process is the development of Red Books. Without the support of the projects
with sufficient funds available for biodiversity conservation goals it would be difficult to develop
such documents, even though they are of great national importance.



                                                  52
2. Creating strong links with tourism development in BiH with rural, eco and medical tourism
and the potentials of PA and recreational forest areas development - Potentials for and its role in
economic development in BiH are considered high. The number of visitors is increasing, as well
as demand for tourist destinations. Rural, eco and medical tourism fit well within the alternative
livelihoods in and in the vicinity of PAs, and provide the opportunities for local development and
protection of natural resources by local population themselves as their resource base, if adequate
approach is taken. This activity relies on promotion of the possibilities for livelihoods that are
based on sustainable practices (e.g., organic agriculture, small craftsmen souvenirs production,
medical herbs, etc.) Local initiatives sub-projects in FMPAP could be used as an example of good
practice in other protected areas and serve as models for future Projects based on cooperation
between local stakeholders (especially local population) and local government and administration
of protected areas.
3. Integrated fire management programs for existing and future protected areas and high
conservation value forest - Within the last two years, fires have caused devastating effects to one
existing PA (Nature park ‘Hutovo Blato’), and one future PA (‘Prenj Cvrsnica Cabulja Vran’).
The fire is a direct threat to biodiversity in BiH, especially in Herzegovina - the area rich in rare,
endemic and endangered species and habitats. Existing capacities of the parks and institutions in
FBiH to deal with fire protection systematically are inadequate. This issue is directly linked to
climate change adaptation as well.
4. Enable cross-border partnerships in managing trans-boundary protected areas - Cross-border
cooperation is important in the context of EU requirements and the effectiveness of biodiversity
conservation. Having this principle in mind, the attention needs to be focused on the cooperation
between the Entities on PA management. Good example is already established cooperation
between NP ‘Una’ in BiH and PAs in Croatian NP ‘Plitvice’ and NP ‘Krka’.


Excerpts from the RS completion report (a full report available in project files):
Introduction
At the end of 2007, the biodiversity of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) was insufficiently
protected. At that point, in BiH there had been more than 20 protected areas covering only about
0.55% of the territory. The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) has realized the
importance of biodiversity, natural and cultural heritage, threats and the need to expand the area
under the regime of conservation and protection, but specific activities generally lacked.
Forest and Mountain Protected Areas Projects (FMPAP) was approved in 2008 and became
effective at the beginning of 2009. Total project costs are 6.00 million US dollars for four years,
including GEF grant in the amount of 3.40 million US$ (1.7 million US$ for FBiH and 1.7
million US$ for RS), contribution of entity Governments 2.51 million US$ (1.255 million US$
from FBiH and 1.255 million US$ from RS). The Republic of Srpska Government contribution
refers to regular grants that the RS Government every year provides to national parks ‘Sutjeska’
and ‘Kozara’.
Ministry of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the recipient of the GEF grant,
and for the realization of the project it has opened two special accounts to which it transferred
means to Governments of FBiH and RS. Project Management Unit (PMU) was the Department
for Project Coordination of RS Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology
(MSPCEE) in the RS and the Department for Project Implementation of Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET) in FBiH.




                                                  53
As for Republic of Srpska, Forest and Mountain Protected Areas Projects (FMPAP) has been
implemented in four existing protected areas: NP ‘Kozara’, NP ‘Sutjeska’, forest reserve ‘Janj’ in
the Sipovo municipality and forest reserve ‘Lom’ in the Drinic municipality.
Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation, and operational experience
Assessment of the operation’s objective
The project development objective (PDO) was to strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity for sustainable management of protected areas and natural resources and the expansion
of the network of forest and mountain protected areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Observing this
goal at the end of FMPAP project implementation, it can be said that it has been achieved in full.
This claim is confirmed in the analysis given below containing actual indicators of project
objectives.
    •   The first indicator of achievement of the development objective was to increase the total
        area under formal protection (using all IUCN categories) from approximately 0.6% to
        3.0%.
During the implementation of this project, in the Republic of Srpska there has been a significant
increase in the area under formal protection, from only 0.83 % or 20,552.7 ha to 2.93% or
72,276.48 ha.
Contribution to increasing of protected areas size in Republic of Srpska is reflected in the
protection of high conservation value forests in accordance with the principles defined by the
Forest Stewardship Council - The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), which are, depending on
the objectives and the level of protection, classified in the appropriate category by the
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources - International Union for
the conservation of nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). Currently, there are 50,123 ha of area
under protected forests of high conservation value. These areas are identified in the field; their
boundaries are determined and their protection is established in accordance with a defined
purpose and IUCN category of protection, all in accordance with the Regulations on the manner
of proclaiming, marking, financing and mode of management of protected forests and special
purpose forests (Official Gazette of RS, no. 57/09). Entire area of 50,123 ha under protected
forests of high conservation value has been protected over the course of the FMPAP project
duration.
In addition to the significant increase of protected areas in the Republic of Srpska, protection of
high value forests conservation, contributing to increase in the total area of protected areas in BiH
was achieved by proclamation and protection of two nature parks – ‘Gromizelj’ with an area of
831.33 ha and ‘Lisina’ with an area of 560.64, with total area of 1,382 ha. The two nature parks
are protected under the provisions defined by IUCN for category I b, i.e., Wilderness Area.
In the IUCN category III, Natural Monument, in the course of FMPAP project implementation,
several small areas were protected: Cave Ljubacevo 45.45 ha, Cave Orlovaca 27.01 ha, Nature
monument ‘Zuta bukva’ 0.5 hectares, Cave Rastusa 11.39 hectares, Pitfall Ledana 28.26 ha, Cave
Vaganska 12 ha, Cave Datlo 43.42 hectares, Cave Pavlova 13.4 and total area of 181.43 hectares;
and in the IUCN category IV, Habitat/Species Management Area, University town area of 27.38
ha.
With existing and newly declared protected areas, total area of protected areas in the RS is
72,276.48 hectares. This area represents 2.93% of the RS territory, i.e. 1.41% of the Bosnia
and Herzegovina territory.
    •   Key factors endangering biodiversity in each area, according to the composite
        indicators are reduced or remain at the same level.



                                                 54
Factors of biodiversity endangering can be divided into global and local factors of endangering
biodiversity of Republic of Srpska.
Global factors of biodiversity endangering in Republic of Srpska, such as climate changes or acid
rains, can be very slightly affected, and they practically remained at the same level as at the
beginning of the project.
Local factors of biodiversity endangering in Republic of Srpska are factors, which we could
influence and thanks to the implementation of FMPAP project, local factors of biodiversity
endangering in Republic of Srpska are significantly reduced.
This is due to, above all, investments in equipment and infrastructure of protected areas, training
of people who take care about conservation and management of protected areas, as well as the
preparation of plans and documents, which will be used to manage protected areas.
Investments in firefighting equipment, vehicles with water tanks for firefighting has significantly
reduced earlier expressed threat of fire to biodiversity of protected areas. Providing equipment,
i.e., containers for controlled disposal of garbage for protected areas decreased pressures on
biodiversity from pollution with garbage. The implementation of Component 2 project provided
quality training to people who care about conservation and management of protected areas,
including: ecosystem-based management, field skills in areas such as patrolling, community
engagement, managing visitors and translation, which contributed to a significant reduction of
key factors threatening the biodiversity of the Republic of Srpska.
Reduction of the key factors threatening the biodiversity of the Republic of Srpska was also
achieved by implementation of sub-projects under Component 3 of the FMPAP project, i.e.,
giving support to efforts to protect biodiversity for participants who promote the advanced
management of natural resources and generate economic benefits for the local communities
involved in the management of protected areas.
Republic of Srpska Law on National Parks from 2010 banned the economic exploitation of
forests from RS NPs, which implied the cutting and transport of forest products. This has
involved the construction of temporary forest roads and other temporary supporting
infrastructure, which constituted a major threat to biodiversity of NPs at that time. As these
activities are not carried out, already three years self-regenerating processes in forests of RS NPs
largely neutralize the aforementioned effects and further destructive factors to biodiversity of
these protected areas have been prevented. The Republic of Srpska budget now replaces previous
income from sales of timber.
    •   Increasing the share of funding of recurrent costs of management from sustainable
        tourism, at least at the level of 20% (including entrance charges and use) and the
        collection of non-wood products, donations and government grants - at least 15%.
In the course of the FMPAP project implementation there was a major change in the financing of
protected areas. Republic of Srpska Law on National Parks from 2010 banned the economic
exploitation of forests. This Law has significantly altered the structure of financing of national
parks and abolished a significant source of revenue from the forestry sector.
This forced the managers of parks to seek new sources of funding, i.e., increase the share of
funding from the income from tourism, the collection of non- wood products, donations and
government grants. Also, the new management plans for NPK, NPS and forest reserves ‘Lom’
and ‘Janj’ envisage significant changes in the financing of protected areas that are based on their
own revenues (revenues from tourism and permitted economic activities of park managements),
revenue received from projects funded from EU sources and other donations, along with the
existing, but less public funding. As a result of these changes in the financial affairs of the NPs,



                                                 55
during the 2012 and 2013 was quite more stable than in the previous period. For NP ‘Sutjeska’,
total regular expenditure for the period between Jan 1, and Dec 31, 2012 10 was covered by the
tourism and service fees with 13.4 %, while the contribution of the Government of RS was 53%
of total revenue. In NP ‘Kozara’, 10.9 % of total expenditure is covered by income from fees and
services, and tourism, while the contribution of the Government of RS was 57 % of total revenue.
Financial data demonstrates that income from tourism, fees and services has still not reached 20%
of total revenue. There are several reasons for this and main one is that income from tourism
should be higher.
Unfortunately, tourism industry in BiH in the past 5-6 years is experiencing stagnation, which is a
global trend caused by economic crisis. In addition, national parks in Republic of Srpska still do
not have adequate tourism product, marketing strategy or tourism infrastructure to offer high
quality tourism services. New management plans, prepared within FMPAP, recognize these
problems and plan number of measures for improvement of tourism activities, including
improvement of existing and building new infrastructure, development of tourism offer,
improvement of guide services, etc. With FMPAP investments in national parks’ infrastructure
some positive steps forward have been made, but this needs to be continued in the future for
tourism to keep momentum and reach planned 20% of total national parks’ revenues.
Achieved stabilization of financial conditions in the protected areas contributed to more stable
operations and protection within the protected area, which directly influenced the reduction of the
key factors threatening the biodiversity of protected areas and achieving of projected goals of the
FMPAP project.
     •    Improved management effectiveness of protected areas by the assessment of
          monitoring instrument.
During the period of FMPAP implementation, assessments of the efficiency of the management
of protected areas were conducted. These assessments were carried out through various projects
(during the preparation of management plans, UNPD Study Program on sustainable activities in
protected areas). Based on the results obtained by these assessments, appropriate interventions in
the management of protected areas were carried out in order to increase the management
efficiency. Already in 2009 in both NPs and forest reserves, PAME Tracking Tool (TT) was used
to maintain overall efficiency. Tracking Tool has been used as basis for planning new activities in
protected areas. Thus, for example, established system of monitoring of situation and events in
protected areas monitored at which areas are visitors linger most, which places are favorite for
picnics and the starting of fire and adequate infrastructure 11 was planned and built in those areas.
By monitoring the status of rare and endangered plant species, such as rare Yew (Taxus baccata),
which grows at only three sites in NP ‘Kozara’, it was found that intensive visits to those sites
impair growth of new trees, so the activities to limit visit to these sites and planting of new
seedlings were undertaken.



10
  Recurrent costs for the reporting period (Jan-Dec 2012) for NP Sutjeska total 2,212,291BAM and total income
generated from fees, services and tourism activities was 297,504 BAM. In NP Kozara, revenue generated from fees,
services and tourism totals 137,836 BAM. The Government contribution for NP Sutjeska amounted to 1,156,800BAM,
and for NP Kozara in the reporting period it has amounted to 726,200 BAM (without salaries for PMU employees).

11
  In order to ensure the needs of visitors and the protect nature in places where visitors usually start fire, supervised
places for lodging fire were arranged to prevent fires, and by construction of footpaths the uncontrolled trampling of
endangered plant species in these localities was prevented.




                                                          56
Development of management plans for both NPs and forest reserves TTs were adopted and
planned for use in the management of protected areas.
    •    Maintaining public support for protected areas, based on the analysis of at least 80%
         of the respondents.
In order to obtain a complete picture of public perception of protected areas in the Republic of
Srpska, as the first phase preceding the implementation of the public awareness campaign, an
analysis of target groups’ public opinion was done. Questionnaires were designed in a way to
provide insight into the level of awareness, knowledge and attitudes related to protected areas and
biodiversity. The obtained results indicated that 92% of respondents support the existing and
expansion of new protected areas, however, when asked about the level of information on
protected areas, 32.7 % of respondents said they were not satisfied with the current level of
awareness of protected areas, while 94 % of respondents considered they needed more
information about protected areas. Because of these responses, during the development of
awareness campaign, the public has been additionally informed about existing protected areas,
their essential role in the protection of natural values, for which they were declared as such,
efforts that must be invested in order to improve that protection and increase the efficiency of
management.
The participants gave full support to the improvement of protection and more efficient
management of existing protected areas during the workshops that have been organized in the
framework of this project, as well as during other activities, such as the development of
management plans, in which general public, as the interested party, was involved. After finishing
the campaign, the consultants have conducted the second phase of public opinion research 12 in
order to evaluate the success of the campaign and track changes of public opinion. Repeated
research has shown that the campaign had some positive impact on the population through
increased public awareness about protected areas. This conclusion can be drawn from the fact that
at the end of the campaign, support to national parks and creating new protected areas increased
to 94% of respondents. In addition, more people knew about protected areas in their vicinity, how
many National Parks and rainforest reserves there are in the RS, and where they are exactly, and
also a smaller number of respondents felt that they needed more information on protected areas
(89%).
    •    Number of protected areas with developed management plans that include management
         approaches and instruments based on the protection of ecosystems.
At the beginning of the project, only NP ‘Sutjeska’ had completed and adopted management plan.
The management plan developed in the framework of this project is the fourth management plan
for this NP. The last management plan for the period 2003-2012 was prepared in 2002 as part of
the Forestry Project ("National Forestry Programme") for Bosnia and Herzegovina. NP ‘Kozara’
has not had a management plan, and the plan developed by the FMPAP for this NP is the first
management plan, although the park has been operating for 45 years. Forest reserves ‘Janj’ and
‘Lom’ have never had management plans previously.




12 Panel research method was used, i.e. multiple inquires of the same respondents over certain timeframe and using
identical questionnaire. Research was done over the phone as this method was adequate for such dispersed sample.
Sample consisted of 50 people who were asked to follow up the campaign in order to evaluate its effectiveness in the
end. Sample consisted of students, hikers, researchers, journalists and general population.




                                                         57
With this FMPAP project, new, long-term management plans were developed for a time period of
15 years. Management plans have been completed and submitted to the relevant Ministry.
However, in addition to long-term management plan, which have been prepared within FMPAP,
NP ‘Sutjeska’ and NP ‘Kozara’ also operated and managed its protected areas on the basis of
short-term and annual plans, because by Law on National Parks (RS Official Gazette 75/10) upon
the proposal of the director, the board of directors of the National Park passes the annual program
for the protection and business management of the National Park and the financial report, which
have been approved each year by ministry responsible for environmental protection.
Management of forest reserves ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’ so far was done on the basis of current forest-
management plans (basics) that are made for a period of 10 years, and for which the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Srpska gives its consent before
the application.
As the short-term, annual plans for management of national parks and forest-economic
fundamentals of forest reserves are also considered management plans, for which relevant line
Ministries give their consent prior to the application provided their content is satisfactory13 and it
can be deemed that in the Republic of Srpska there are four protected areas that have developed
management plans, which were used for their management so far.

Assessment of the design
The project is designed to provide assistance for the improvement of management of Bosnia and
Herzegovina natural resources. FMPAP is designed to build on the Forest Development and
Conservation Project (FDCP), which was funded by the International Development Association
(IDA). In addition to direct work on components of FDCP, FMPAP has also built onto many
technical results of FDCP activities.
During the design of the project, the existing division of responsibilities within BiH has been
taken into account, which assigns leadership role to the entity Ministries of Environment.
However, the project was also designed so that the implementation arrangements provide links
with other agencies at different levels of government that have key contribution, including the
Ministry of Agriculture, Water management and Forestry (MAWMF) in both entities, the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) as contact persons (Focal Point) for
the GEF, as well as municipal institutions. Significant working relationships have been
established between staff in the field managing the protected areas and national forest one, at the
local level, in order to help to avoid potential conflicts related to land use rights and access to
natural resources.
In the design of the project itself, the emphasis was placed on participation of civil society and the
private sector in the system of protected areas, aiming to achieve long-term sustainability. Such
manner of project design offered opportunity to build and strengthen partnerships with NGOs on
a range of activities for protected areas management including community mobilization,
awareness raising, helping existence and environmental management. In most project activities,
the NGO sector has been identified as a key partner and was included in discussions, workshops
and decision making processes regarding the future appearance and functioning of protected areas


13
  Management documents that were used before (short-term, annual plans for management and forest-economic
fundamentals of forest reserves) contain all elements of plans including assessment of current situation, needs, strategic
and operational goals and activities that need to be implemented in relevant planned timeframe.




                                                           58
in RS. In addition to continued growth of tourism in the country, the project was also supposed to
provide support for partnership with the private sector with a focus on capacity-building for
sustainable tourism.
The project was designed to increase the area under formal protection (different protection
regimes, mostly multifunctional, and which depending on the objectives and the level of
protection had to be classified into the appropriate IUCN categories of protected areas
management). In the preparation of the project, a number of threats to biodiversity in protected
areas of national parks ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’ and forest reserves ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’ were
identified. Having this in mind, the project was designed in such manner that all threats to
biodiversity of protected areas were identified in detail and subsequently to establish safeguard
mechanisms to eliminate, reduce or mitigate identified threats.
In order to build financial sustainability and reduce dependence on income from forest harvesting,
the project was designed to help authorities of protected areas in the development of management
plans, which would include the most appropriate and feasible options for diversification of
income given the objectives of the protected area conservation.
Clear goals were set to fund share the costs of the current management at a level of at least 20%
from sustainable tourism (including charges for entry and use) and the collection of non-wood
products, and donations, as well as at least 15% from the government budget. FMPAP was
designed to also achieve better efficiency and management of protected areas, in accordance with
the evaluation using the instrument for monitoring the Protected Areas Management
Effectiveness (PAME).
The design of the project was also supposed to achieve an institutional, social and environmental
sustainability of protected areas. It planned to achieve institutional sustainability by training and
with an increasing build-up of experience in the field, in protected area management, project
management and policy analysis. The plan for the project was to utilize existing administrative
and organizational structures. Social sustainability was to be achieved by involving relevant
subjects in the development of approach for the whole country in the direction of expanding the
network of protected areas, incorporating the attitudes and needs of the community in the
management of protected areas, building awareness of the benefits of biodiversity conservation
and gaining experience with participatory approaches to sustainable management of natural
resources.
With all the aforementioned characteristics, FMPAP was designed to try to ensure the support of
the general public with protected areas through the implementation of specific project activities
aimed at strengthening public awareness, improving and raising level of understanding about
protected areas.
An insufficient accuracy of key indicators can be pointed out as a deficiency in the design of the
project, which should have served as a benchmark of achieved results and projected goals.
Assessment of the implementation
Part of the FMPAP project, which was implemented in the territory of the Republic of Srpska,
was realized by the Project Management Unit (PMU) in the RS, which was part of the Sector for
Coordination of projects in the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology
(MSPCEE). Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH signed the Grant Agreement with the
World Bank, which defined amount of funds allocated to BiH, while RS Ministry of Finance
signed Project Agreement with the World Bank, which defined the amount of funds allocated to
Republic of Srpska. Designated account was opened by Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH
authorizing Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology to withdraw funds and



                                                 59
make payments. For the realization of the project in the territory of RS, Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the RS was allocated US$ 1.7 million.
FMPAP in the RS area was realized through three components and their sub-components.

     Component 1: Development of protected areas. This component of the project
      provided support for protected area management plans, business management, and
      evaluations, and has facilitated development of existing and new protected areas.
Sub-component 1a): Management planning of protected areas.
The project financed, through this sub-component, the development and implementation of new
protected area management plans for the two existing National Parks ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’
and the existing forest reserves ‘Janj’ and ‘Lom’. In addition, new feasibility studies were
prepared to review opportunities to expand existing protected areas and potential new protected
areas. During preparation of these documents, various models of how to spread and manage
protected areas were drafted and discussed, new protection zones were established, with different
protection regimes in accordance with the Republic of Srpska Law on Nature Protection (“RS
Official Gazette”, No. 113/08), which, depending on the defined protection regime, were
classified into the appropriate IUCN category. Final management plans worked out in detail
possible models for managing protected areas involved in the project and a decision, to choose
the best in the current situation, was made. Also, in these management plans, possibilities of
future financing of protected areas were discussed in detail. The management plans developed
and implemented a financing model that foresees diversification and the ratio of funding sources.
Within this sub-component, special-purpose areas Physical Plans for NP ‘Sutjeska’ and ‘Kozara’
were drafted. Since Spatial Plan of the Republic of Srpska defined use policy and land
management in national parks by 2015, with an emphasis on the tourism operation, it was logical
to make spatial plans for these parks in the framework of this project. The aim was to set rules of
sustainable development and use of the protected area by these spatial plans. Before these spatial
plans for area of NP ‘Sutjeska’, the last spatial plan was made in 1986, while for area of NP
‘Kozara’, no spatial planning documentation was ever made.
Sub-component 1b): The environmental and assessment of protected areas management. One of
the key elements for the realization of the project was to ensure the adoption and widespread use
of the instrument for Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (PAME), in order to be
able to carry out assessments of management effectiveness of protected areas. Training for use of
PAME tool involved 16 staff involved in the management of protected areas, including managing
directors and their staff, representatives of JP Forestry "Sume RS" and representatives of the
Institute for the Protection of the Cultural-Historical Heritage of RS. Training was held in NP
‘Kozara’' and consisted of three parts: interactive presentations, group work and discussions and
conclusions. As part of this training, the participants reviewed PAME tool and adapted it for local
use. The process of discussions resulted in a conclusion that the list of threats should be expanded
and that new threats should be added (the use of chemicals and proprietary rights, such as the lack
of clear documentation, owners’ conflicts, conflicts of interest and political lobbies). This training
also led to the conclusion that different tools for monitoring the effectiveness of the management
of national parks and forest reserves should be developed.
The held training accomplished its main objective, i.e., improving of general understanding
among managers and their staff and other relevant participants of PAME tool for monitoring of
Protected Areas Management Effectiveness.
This tool for monitoring the implementation and use in the decision-making process represented
one of the key performance indicators for the first component of the project. It was also one of the



                                                 60
conditions for design of the next study projects that had been planned for implementation under
this sub-component of the project (Study on ecological baseline assessment of protected areas of
RS and Taxonomic and Geographical Assessment of Species of Republic of Srpska).
The project has established a system of Monitoring and evaluation (M&E), both for protected
areas, and the project itself.
This included support for the initial assessment of the environmental condition that was used as
an input for the planning of protected areas management and decision making, as well as for
monitoring the state of biodiversity and monitoring of key habitats and species. During the
implementation of this sub-component two very important projects for biodiversity of Republic of
Srpska were implemented:
    • Study on ecological baseline assessment of protected areas of RS,
    • Study: Taxonomic and Geographical Assessment of Species in Preparation Compiling of
        the Red List of Fauna and Flora of Republic of Srpska.
Actual results of these projects fully meet the objectives of this sub-component of FMPAP
project.
The implementation of project to design Study on ecological baseline assessment of protected
areas of the RS through fieldwork collected many of the data, on the basis of which the initial
environmental database for all four project sites was formed. This ecological database represents
consolidation and amendment of the literature with data obtained in field work in the projected
areas. The database contains information on the presence of certain species and their habitats for
all four project sites, status indicators and identified threats in specific locations. The very
architecture of this database and the data in it are high-quality baseline for continued work on the
impact analyses and defining of measures to eliminate or mitigate any negative impact on the
biodiversity of the four protected areas.
By implementation of project Study of Taxonomic and Geographical Assessment of Species in
Preparation Compiling of the Red List of Fauna and Flora of Republic of Srpska, a
complete range of distribution of potentially endangered species of flora and fauna in the
Republic of Srpska was obtained.
A preliminary list of endangered species of flora and fauna has been prepared based on review of
relevant literature from different fields, present specific knowledge and experience of the experts,
the legislation in force in the Republic of Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, international
conventions (Bern, Bonn, Washington Convention, Habitats Directive, IUCN list of globally
threatened species, CITES, EMERALD network, etc.) and the available literature data on
endangered species.
Based on the obtained preliminary list of endangered species of flora and fauna, it is now possible
to determine the share in the distribution of endangered species in the whole country, in relation
to their distribution in the current and future potentially protected areas.
This is achieved by creating a comprehensive database, made in a geographical information
system (GIS). This GIS database will serve as a starting point for all future research and
protection of species and habitats.
In addition to this, within the framework of this project, a methodology for future categorization
of endangered species has been prepared, in accordance with national legislation and
internationally accepted criteria for classification of endangered species. This project sets the
basis and defines the methodology of making Republic of Srpska Red List of flora and fauna.
The project has, due to all of the above, contributed to strengthening of the capacity for
biodiversity conservation and sustainable management at local and entity level. At the entity


                                                 61
level, the project has contributed to building the capacity of the Ministry in charge of
environmental protection, so that this institution will be able to provide leadership in preserving
the biodiversity of the Republic of Srpska in the near future.
Sub-component 1c): Facilities in protected areas. The project has funded the provision of
technical and material resources needed for business management of protected areas. Within
this sub-component of the project, 13 contracts were implemented, involving the procurement of
IT infrastructure (software and hardware), passenger and utility vehicles, tractors, vehicles with
water tanks for fire-fighting and the necessary fire-fighting equipment, weather stations,
containers for disposal and waste collection, clothing and footwear. All purchased technical and
material resources were evenly distributed in all four protected areas, while the portion was
retained for the material equipping of PMU.
The project has provided support for the rehabilitation of existing and construction of new
infrastructure necessary for the improvement of the existing protected areas and the
establishment of the newly-formed protected areas. Generally it is so-called "soft" infrastructure,
improving of existing trails, development of new trails, setting the marks, resting areas, marking
the boundaries of the park, the entrance points of protected areas, etc. Within this sub-component
of the project, construction and equipping of the info center in NP ‘Kozara’, wooden cabins for
visitors and info centre in Sipovo, benches, covered resting areas and jogging trails in Drinic,
were financed. The result of these project activities is that these investments improved the
products and services that protected areas now offer and thereby increased revenues from its own
activities, such as entrance fees, souvenirs, etc.

     Component 2: Capacities and support for biodiversity protection. This component of
      the project was focused on strengthening the institutions responsible for the planning,
      establishment and management of protected areas.
Sub-component 2a): The development of the institutional capacity. Within this sub-component of
the project, three projects for education and training for protected areas managers and decision
makers in relevant institutions Republic of Srpska were implemented:
    •   Training on the Business Planning for Sustainable Protected areas in the RS,
    •   Trainings for the PA managers and institutions, and
    •   Study tours
Training and technical assistance was focused on building competence in such areas as:
management based on an ecosystem that focuses on adaptive management: integration of
environmental, economic and social aspects and sustainability, business planning with a focus on
financial sustainability and marketing of protected areas as quality destination; field skills in areas
such as patrolling, community engagement, managing visitors and translation. These results are
achieved by implementing Training on the Business Planning for Sustainable Protected areas
in the RS.
This training was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Forestry and
Finance, whose competences are correlated with natural resources, as well as members of the
National Parks’ management. Participants of this training developed a pragmatic approach in the
development of business plans, based on modern concepts, accepted by most financial and micro-
financial institutions. The concept of development of business plan for protected areas, took into
account both their current financial situation (e.g., annual income, wages, costs), as well as the
existing decision-making process on the approval or rejection of potential development projects.
Since this approach relies on modern theories of management and entrepreneurship, the training
was attended by participants with a reasonable basis for the successful implementation of
activities and projects which are made in business plans.


                                                  62
During this training the participants:
   • gained an understanding of the essential concepts of business planning, and specific
        business planning in protected areas;
   • received information about the key elements of business ideas and ways of their
        realization;
   • were trained to identify and adopt the most important elements of business planning in
        the management of protected areas, using the appropriate forms and criteria;
   • received information about appropriate sources of short-term and especially long-term
        sources of financing;
   • received insight into the basic motivational factors that influence the development of
        business plans for protected areas.
Given the critical role of the forestry and tourism sector, coaching and training projects covered
employees in these sectors.
This project also funded building of capacity in the respective RS Ministry of Spatial Planning,
Construction and Environment, which is responsible for the management of protected areas, as
well as the Republic Institute for the Protection of the Cultural-Historical Heritage of RS,
responsible for the protection, study and proposing extensions of existing and proclamation of
new protected areas. Implementation of these project activities made these institutions qualified
for providing stronger leadership in order to be prepared for the convergence with the EU and to
strengthen regional cooperation.
Sub-component 2b): Programs for raising public awareness. The project has also provided
support for the development and implementation of programs to reach the public in order to
raise public awareness on the protection of biodiversity and protected areas. To this end, under
this sub-component, a campaign for improvement and raising public awareness on protected areas
in the Republic of Srpska was implemented.
Public awareness campaign, through the media campaign and direct work with local communities
pointed to the value of biological diversity, the need to preserve and expand protected areas, as
well as the need to establish links with similar international protected areas. During the
implementation of this campaign, activities that contribute to a better understanding and valuation
of both national parks (as one type of protected areas), and the existence and importance of the
rain forest reserves (as specific type of protected areas), were developed.
All activities under this campaign were conducted with the aim to increase the overall level of
knowledge of the local population about the principles and benefits of sustainable management of
protected areas, while taking care to ensure optimal input information for key participants.
Sub-component 2c): Project Management and Project Monitoring. Within this sub-component
limited funding was provided for project management and operational costs; the meeting of the
Committee for directing the project at the state level and project monitoring. Consequently, many
specialized activities where required specific skills were needed during a short period of time at
periodic intervals, such as drafting terms of reference for specific sub-project activities, were
implemented through the engagement of individual consultants. By selecting the consultant for
the implementation of occasional specific actions, the capacities were built and institutional
strengthening in all components of the project PMU on various tasks.
Since at the beginning of the project implementation PMU within MSPCEE did not have all
necessary staff, the financial management and procurement specialists had been appointed in this
PMU. RS PMU has also signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with local experts for
financial management and procurement who have already had experience with projects financed


                                                63
by the Bank. These experienced professionals: (a) established systems of financial management
and procurement in MSPCEE PMU, (b) provided financial management and procurement
services and in-service training of PMU staff during the first three months after project
effectiveness, and (c) provided advice to the staff of PMU. As a result of this cooperation, a
financial manual was prepared.

     Component 3: Local initiatives for biodiversity protection.
The implementation of the FMPAP project provided support for efforts to protect biodiversity to
participants who would promote the advanced management of natural resources and generate
economic benefits for the local communities involved in the management of protected areas.
Proposed projects for co-financing had to prove that they would lead to the alleviation of
significant threats to global biodiversity or that they would contribute to the monitoring of
biodiversity, and to include arrangements for the assessment of their impacts.
Also, the proposed projects had to be meet one of the following three criteria: (i) generate
revenues compatible with protected areas, e.g., activities of eco-tourism (accommodation in
handicraft business, training guides, building tracks), sustainable exploitation of forest by-
products, agro-ecological enterprises, help to eco-tourism and agriculture for obtaining
environmental certifications, (ii) protection of habitats and landscapes, for example, restoration of
sites and landscapes, participatory management of grazing, and (iii) sustainable management of
the environment, e.g., waste management, promotion of alternative energy. To ensure
sustainability, the project has provided technical assistance to facilitate the design and selection of
proposals of sub-projects and to assist in the monitoring of their implementation.
Users were asked to give their own contribution of at least 20 percent of the total budget of the
sub-project. The proposed sub-projects were identified and selected through public consultations,
including local entities, taking into account the possibilities for solving the constraints resulting
from the management of protected areas.
A total of six grants in the amount of US$ 20,000 and 100,000 were provided. Protected area of
NP ‘Kozara’ has been awarded two grants:
    • "The organization of schools in the countryside in order to protect the biodiversity of the
        National Park Kozara" to Mountaineering society "Klekovaca", Prijedor,
    • Project of habitat and landscapes conservation "In the future over Tisa", Ecological
        Society "Kozara" in Prijedor

Protected area of forest reserve ‘Lom’ has been awarded two grants:
    • "Beekeeping in a protected area of rainforest reserve "Lom" and earning income from a
        protected area", to Family agricultural farm, user Novo Pecanac, Drinic.
    • "Building of Eco-center and the creation of tourism offer", Petrovac municipality, to the
        Municipal administrative department, Drinic.

In NP ‘Sutjeska’ grant has been awarded to Association for help in emergency situations, "Wolf",
Foca for sub-project "Cleaning and ranching (restocking) of Crno Jezero and Sutjeska". In FR
‘Janj’ grant has been awarded to Tourist Organization of Sipovo municipality, Sipovo for sub-
project "Preserving, real improvement, sustainable use and valorisation of biodiversity".
Implementation of the complete project, at Bosnia and Herzegovina level, in Implementation
Status & Results (ISR) was assessed mainly with grade Moderately Satisfactory, with periodic
grades of Moderately Unsatisfactory, but with the project approaching the closing date and the
accelerated implementation of initiated activities, it was rated Satisfactory.



                                                  64
During the implementation of individual sub-projects, there were also some delays and deviations
from the dynamics of the implementation of certain activities, which was negotiated during the
negotiations. Delays in the implementation of individual contracts entailed the start of
implementation of other contracts too. The most prominent example was the delay in the
implementation of projects in the sub-component 1c): Objects in protected areas whose
implementation was scheduled to begin only after management plans were made and adopted.
Management plans were supposed to identify the need for these facilities in protected areas on the
basis of which projects in the sub-component 1c) were supposed to be implemented.
However, delay in the design of Management plans, delayed the implementation of projects in the
sub-component 1c). Delay in preparation of protected areas management plans has occurred
because Ministry of Spatial Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology appointed a committee for
monitoring of preparation of management plans whose members were representatives of all
institutions relevant for protected areas, including representatives of national parks management,
forestry companies, local communities etc. Due to large number of members and need to reach
consensus, decision making and adoption of the consultant’s reports were long and complex,
while TOR has not provided different way of monitoring consultant’s work. This was the main
reason for poor ratings of the project implementation during this period. Having decided that the
implementation of projects in the sub-component 1c) does not need to wait for the completion of
the Management plans, their implementation started.
Assessment of the operational experience
If one considers the number of similar projects realized by RS PMU, the experience gained with
the implementation of this project is very valuable. By implementing this project, members of the
PMU have mastered many skills of writing and publishing calls for funds, reporting skills,
writing project tasks and gained extensive knowledge of the bank's procedures and manner of
implementation of projects.
In addition, many lessons were learned during the implementation of specific project activities,
which are described in detail in the next item, and which will be used in the implementation of
future similar projects to protect biodiversity and natural and cultural values of the Republic of
Srpska in general.
Thanks to this project, RS PMU is formed, and personnel wise and materially capable of
performing all necessary functions.
Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation and implementation
of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be helpful in the future
RS PMU, at the beginning of the project, did not have the necessary capacity for full
implementation of all project activities. This was particularly evident in financial management
and procurement. Due to this fact, in the beginning of the project implementation, additional
efforts had to be made to fully enable the PMU and to achieve its full functionality. Thanks to the
full support of the Bank's team, this PMU has reached full functionality. The fact that has
significantly contributed to this is that during the design of the project one sub-component, which
was focused exclusively on project management and project monitoring, was envisaged.
During the project implementation RS PMU team tried to ensure the achievement of project
development objective. In this context, RS PMU team was trying to successfully prepare, contract
and implement all the planned sub-projects from all sub-components of the project.
The PMU promptly responded to all the requirements of the Bank by participating in joint events
and by providing all requested information. Reporting to the bank on the implementation of




                                                 65
project activities was always in an appropriate form, containing complete and required
information without delay.
Procurement and financial management projects were accessed on time, so that all planned
project activities were contracted in accordance with the approved procurement plan.
By participating in this project implementation RS PMU has learned more lessons that will be of
great benefit in the future. Benefits from the lessons learned will not be only for PMU team, but
also for the relevant Ministry, as well as public institutions, agencies and institutes involved in the
protection of nature and management of protected areas, as well as many other participants in the
implementation of specific project activities.
Below is a review of the experience gained and lessons learned with explanations:

        Big control bodies of project implementation hinder the realization and increase the
         likelihood of conflict.
During realization of the project of creating Management plans for protected areas, including the
development of Spatial plans for special purpose areas, we have learned that if a control body is
formed, the potential for conflicts and conflict of interest with many members dramatically
increases with the achieved results of project activities. This further leads to complications in the
implementation of planned activities, "not meeting deadlines", increasing costs and uncertain end
of the project. Accordingly, we have learned that it is better and more efficient to form smaller
control bodies for the project activities implementation, and put more emphasis on intensive
participation of key participant in the implementation of project activities itself. This would give
the possibility to all participants to achieve their interests through actual implementation of the
project itself, instead of being judges for the results of project activities.

        The beginning of projects implementation should not be conditioned by completion
         of other projects.
In the case of projects implementation delay in the sub-component 1c) due to waiting completion
of management plans design for protected areas, we have learned that this is a bad practice and if
possible it should be avoided in the future. This is especially true for large projects, projects to be
implemented in several phases and for which there is an increased risk that there could be some
delays in their implementation.

      It is necessary to invest more in equipment and infrastructure of protected areas.
Infrastructure of protected areas makes the basis for quality and sustainable management of
protected areas, as well as appropriate protection. The implementation of projects in the sub-
component 1c) and equipping of protected areas with fire-fighting equipment, off-road vehicles
for ranger services, corresponding infrastructure taught us that in this way a lot more is done in
improving the management and protection of the protected area, reducing the pressures and
threats to biodiversity than it is achieved by investing in training and education.
By investing in appropriate infrastructure of protected areas sustainable tourism exploitation of
protected areas is implemented, which accomplishes main objectives of the FMPAP project
related to increase in income from own activities, as well as enabling local people to engage in
some form of economic activity using the proximity of protected areas as an advantage.
Generally, issues such as infrastructure local communities in or in the vicinity of protected areas,
transportation, construction projects, schemes of settlements and the creation of renewable energy
are not considered at the community level, but are rather left the decision-making scheme from
top to bottom, within which community participation is often omitted, omitting, therefore, the
sustainability aspects.



                                                  66
The community can and should be an integral part of the identity of protected areas. It should be a
mutually beneficial relationship that also supports the principles of nature conservation and
sustainable living style of communities in and around protected areas, but it is, above all,
necessary to provide investment in infrastructure which opens the full potential of protected areas.

        Without additional education and information, both general and professional public
         on protected areas, a great resistance is encountered with the establishment of new
         or expansion of existing PA.
In the Republic of Srpska, there have been two national parks for more than 60 years. The public
has an awareness of the existence of these parks, but there is little knowledge about categories
and protection regimes in them. There is even less knowledge with general and professional
public about other protected areas. In general, very little is known about types of protected areas,
categories and protection regimes in them. The prevailing opinion is that the protection of some
areas prohibits any activity in them, which is automatically considered a loss of territory, natural
and material resources, which directly threatens the livelihood of local communities in the area.
In addition to this problem, during the implementation of the project, we have learned that it is
difficult to establish new or expand existing protected areas, if it is not possible to achieve certain
economic benefits from them, i.e., exploit them for tourism or other purpose. There is no
awareness of indirect life benefits in/around environment of protected areas, such as:
opportunities to produce eco-friendly food in them, the use of a variety of additional sources of
funding from various projects in protected areas from EU funds or certain donor funds. In the
course of this project we have learned that for any activities related to the establishment of new or
expansion of existing protected areas detailed educational-informative activities of civil society
and local communities must be pre- planned and carried out, in places where protected areas are
proposed, or where they will be extended.
Due to the importance of described learned lessons and the issues we encountered during the
implementation of this project in the next chapter “Description of the proposed arrangements for
future operation of the project”, we have proposed that in future, attempts should be done to
continue, under this project already started campaign for the promotion and raising the level of
public awareness of protected areas in the Republic of Srpska.
        Existing models for managing or monitoring of management effectiveness must be
         tailored specifically for each protected area.
This is a lesson that was learned during maintenance of Training on the Protected Areas
Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool / PAME and during the preparation of Management
plans for protected areas. The differences in the characteristics of different protected areas such as
national parks, strict nature reserves or areas of resource management require a completely
different approach to strategic management and therefore it is necessary to adapted already
available models of management or monitoring the effectiveness of protected areas management
to the particular nature and purpose of the protected area. Lists of threats of protected areas or
sustainable economic exploitation also differ among individual protected areas and it is necessary
to invest efforts to revise existing available models and adjust them to the real situation on the
ground.

        The availability of data from recent scientific studies of biodiversity of the Republic
         of Srpska is poor
In the last twenty years, there have been few organized, systematic studies of RS flora and fauna.
Systematized data on all studies do not exist, except for individual findings. Data from the few
conducted studies is mainly poorly accessible.




                                                  67
There has never been an obligation to leave all data on research in the administration of protected
areas or institutions that have allowed research on a specific location. If you want to get to the
results of research, mainly, there is first a question regarding financial compensation for the
transfer of the requested data by the authors of the study. All this forces the authors to use the old
literature data, which due to insufficient volume of recent studies have not been innovated and
supplemented.
Consequently, future projects will need to be based on more recent field research, and less on the
available literature data. This is significant because already in the process of implementation of
this project, i.e., specific projects we have been working a lot with available literature data, which
is partially innovated and amended, and all future studies should be based on the results obtained
in this project (environmental databases created during the implementation of the project
Ecological Baseline Assessment of protected areas of the RS and the preliminary list and GIS
database of endangered species of flora and fauna resulting from implementation of Taxonomic
and Geographical Assessment of Species of Republic of Srpska project).
Due to the importance of this lessons learned, i.e., recognized problem in the next chapter
“Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project”, we have proposed
that in future involvement of the Bank, regarding the protection and enhancement of biodiversity
of the Republic of Srpska, attempts are made to develop projects which would enhance IT
infrastructure that would encompass the systematic organization, implementation, and finally the
availability of data on scientific studies of biodiversity of the Republic of Srpska.

Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or other partners during the
preparation and implementation of the operation, including the effectiveness of their
relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned
The Bank has made a significant contribution in defining priorities, preparations and evaluation
of projects, monitoring and supervision of individual contracts and the entire project. In addition,
Bank’s team, during the whole period of the project, provided constant support and professional
consulting to RS PMU team.
Also, the Bank team promptly responded to all the queries regarding professional or technical
assistance, requirements for evaluation and approval. With this approach, the Bank has helped in
solving all the issues that have arisen during the implementation and helped in making
implementation of the project faster and more efficient.
The design of the project, by which one entire sub-component was focused exclusively on project
management and project monitoring, enabled the quality training to PMU for full functionality in
the implementation of all other planned activities.
During the project implementation RS PMU team has adopted many of the skills that are
necessary for doing business with the Bank and implementation of the project in which the Bank
is involved. Many lessons were learned, as follows:

        For projects that are financially supported, it is necessary to ensure proper
         management of the implementation and monitoring of project activities.
In order to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the funded project, it is necessary to
establish proper project management with timely and well-coordinated actions. These actions
imply the timely procurement procedures, contracting, implementation of commitments,
expenditure of funds and mandatory reporting during project implementation.




                                                 68
This lesson learned is of the importance to the responsible Ministry, to which RS PMU belong,
from the standpoint of the future financing of protected areas and other projects from the field of
nature protection.

Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project.
Implementation of FMPAP led to the actualization of the project development and global
environmental objective of strengthening the institutional and technical capacity for sustainable
management of protected areas and natural resources and the expansion of the network of
protected areas. The project has implemented many activities in order to achieve the project
objective. Most of implemented activities achieved their projected goals.
However, for the sustainability of the achieved results and goals, in the future, it will be necessary
to continue some of the activities started by this project. To this end, we will try to briefly present
our proposals for future arrangements that might be supported by the Bank:

        Continuation of Campaign for improvement and raising public awareness level
         regarding protected areas in the Republic of Srpska.
One of the lessons learned during this project, is that resistance is mainly met in the public when
dealing with or talking about the establishment of new or expansion of existing protected areas.
The analysis of the causes of this resistance brought us to the conclusion that the public is not
sufficiently informed about the types of protected areas, categories and protection regimes in
them, i.e., what the local community gains from a protected area in its territory.
During the realization of FMPAP, a Campaign for the promotion and raising public awareness of
protected areas in the Republic of Srpska was implemented. During the development of this
campaign the public was informed about the existing protected areas, their essential role in the
protection of natural values for which they are declared as such, efforts that must be put in to
facilitate improvement that protection and increase the efficiency of management. The public
campaign was partially successful in bringing public knowledge closer to the protected areas, but
without further continuation of the campaign in this modified form the achieved results will not
have a long-term effect.
Therefore, we use this space and opportunity to emphasize the need to continue funding of the
project that would be aimed at informing and educating both general and professional public
about protected areas, the benefits of life in/or surrounding protected areas (opportunities to
produce ecologically healthy food in them, the use of a variety of additional financing sources of
projects in protected areas from certain donor or EU funds, etc.).

      Continued investment in equipment and infrastructure of protected areas.
As we have already pointed out in part of the lessons learned during the implementation of the
FMPAP project - by investing in infrastructure of protected areas, multiple targets in the field of
efficient management of protected areas are achieved, reductions of threats to biodiversity, as
well as enabling sustainable economic exploitation of protected areas. Based on these lessons
learned we suggest that the trend of investment in the infrastructure of protected areas continues
in future.
In the future, it is necessary to invest in road infrastructure in order to enhance the accessibility of
protected areas, municipal infrastructure in order to ensure a safe water supply in protected areas,
drainage and wastewater treatment and collection of waste in order to protect the environment in
protected areas, as well as make an investment in tourism infrastructure within each protected
area in order to increase and diversify tourism services in protected areas.




                                                  69
       Construction of Central scientific-research biodiversity database of Republic of
        Srpska.
During the realization of FMPAP we found out that in the last twenty years, there were few
organized, systematic studies of flora and fauna in RS. In addition, data from these studies are
generally poorly available, because it was never required for all data on research to be left in the
administrations of protected areas or institutions that have allowed research on a particular
location.
For the future operation of the project, we suggest activities that would enhance IT infrastructure
that would encompass the systematic organization, implementation and ultimately the availability
of data for scientific research of Republic of Srpska biodiversity. In Europe, information systems
on research activities are being built for several decades already, with the generic name of CRIS
(Current Research Information Systems). Information system of research activity recently came
to life in the Republic of Srpska (E-CRIS.RS). E-CRIS.RS is managed by the National E-CRIS
center of the Ministry of Science and Technology. National E-CRIS.RS currently only contains a
database of research organizations and researchers, and a database of research projects has not yet
been established, and with this alone nor the results of these projects.
Future projects should support the creation of a central database of all existing and future
scientific research projects of Republic of Srpska biodiversity. This may be an upgrade or an
expansion of the existing E-CRIS.RS database at the Ministry of Science and Technology, or
creating a new database, specific only to the field of biodiversity at the Ministry of Spatial
Planning, Civil Engineering and Ecology, or at the Institute for Protection of Cultural, Historical
and Natural heritage of RS.
In any case, one of the conditions of financial support of such a project should be the availability
of research data, whether only to researchers and scientific research organizations, which are
registered in that database, the administrations of protected areas and institutions that have
allowed research on a specific location or to everybody, publicly available data.




                                                 70
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    71
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (May 8, 2008, Report No. 39952)
Financing Agreement (December 18, 2008)
GEF Grant Agreement (April 16, 2008)
Implementation Support Mission Aide-memoires (2008-2013)
Implementation Status and Results Reports (2008-2013)
Procurement Plans (2008-2013)
TORs of various consulting assignments
FMPAP M&E-Progress Reports
PAME Tracking Tools
RS Project Completion Report (December 2013)
FBiH Project Completion Report (January 2014)
FBiH Facilitation Assistance for Sub-projects Preparation Under the Project Component: “Local Initiatives
in Biodiversity Conservation” – August 2013
RS Facilitation Assistance for Sub-projects Preparation Under the Project Component: “Local Initiatives in
Biodiversity Conservation” – October 2013
FBiH ‘A Quick Social Evaluation of the Project for the Protection of Forest and Mountainous Areas in
B&H – Follow-up Study’ – October 2013




                                                   72
MAP




      73
