Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17160-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF MEDICINAL PLANTS PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6,1997
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



Currency Equivalents
(January 31, 1997)
Currency unit-Sri Lankan Rupee (SLR)
US$ 1.00 = SLR 57.19
SLR 1 million = US$ 17, 486
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric Unit System
Metric Unit                  =             British/US Equivalent
1 centimeter                 =             0.39 inch
1 meter                      =             39.37 inches
1 kilometer                  =             0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)               =             2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)     =             0.386 square mile
I cubic meter (mi) 3                       35.31 cubic meter
I liter (1)                  =             0.264 gallons
1 kilogram (kg)              =             2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)         =             2,205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB                   Asian Development Bank
BAP           =       Biodiversity Action Plan
BMARI         =       Bandranaike Memorial Ayurvedic Research Institute
CAMC                  Conservation Area Management Committee
CAS           =       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           =       Community Based Organization
CISIR                 Ceylon Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research
GEF           =       Global Environment Facility
GoSL                  Government of Sri Lanka
LOI                   Letter of Invitation
MIM           =       Ministry in charge of Indigenous Medicine
MoU           =       Memorandum of Understanding
MPCA                  Medicinal Plant Conservation Area
MPRMC                 Medicinal Plant Reserve Management Committee
MFE           =       Ministry of Forestry and Environment
NEAP          =       National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
NPSC                  National Project Steering Committee
NTFP                  Non Timber Forest Products
PA            =       Protected Area
PD                    Project Director
PMU           =       Project Management Unit
PPMC                  Provincial Project Management Committee
SNR           =       Strict Nature Reserve
STAP                  Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
UNDP          =       United Nations Development Program
VPMC          =       Village Project Management Committee
WHO           -       World Health Organization
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Managers: Ridwan Ali/Michael Baxter
Task Managers: Nadim Khouri/Malcolm Jansen



SRI LANKA
CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF MEDICINAL PLANTS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Page
PROJECT DATA SHEET                                                        iii
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................                 1
A.  Project Development Objectives .1
B. Project Components .1
C.  Benefits and Target Population.                                      2
D.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.                      2
Institutional Arrangements.                                 2
Implementation Period.                                      3
Executing Agencies.                                         3
Project Oversight.                                          4
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements   4
Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................   4
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE ..........................................................   4
A.    CAS Objectives Supported by the Project.                            4
B.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy.                         5
C.    Sector Issues to be Addressed b-y the Project.                      6
D. Project Alternatives.                                                  7
E. Major Related Projects                      .7
F.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in Project Design.                    8
G.    Indications of Beneficiary Commitment and Ownership.               9
H.  Value Added of GEF and Bank Support.                                  9
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS .........................................  10
A. Economic Assessment .10
Economic Analysis .10
Incremental Cost Analysis .10
Fiscal Impact .11
B. Financial Assessment .12
C. Technical Assessment .12
D.  Institutional Assessment. .13



E.    Social Assessment ..............           ....................      13
Socio-Economic Characteristics .13
Indigenous People .14
Social Issues Addresses by the Project .14
F.  Environmental Assessment..                                             15
G. Participatory Approach .16
H. Sustainability .16
I. Critical Risks .17
J.  Possible Controversial Aspects .18
BLOCK 4: MAIN GRANT CONDITIONS .18
A.  Conditions for Effectiveness            . . .18
B. Other                            ...18
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES...                                 19
LIST OFANN~EXES
1:    Project Design Summary
2:    Detailed Project Description
3:    Estimated Project Costs
4:    Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
5.    Financial Summary
6.-    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
6A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
6B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
6C.   Allocation of Grant Proceeds
7.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
8.    Documents in the Project File
9.    Statement of Loans and Credits
10.   Country at a Glance
Map Number IBRD 29161 : Proposed Medicinal Plant Reserves and their Climatic
Characteristics



iii
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
Sri Lanka
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Date: October 27, 1997                                                      []  Draft       [x] Final
Task Manager: Nadim Khouri/Malcolm Jansen                Country Manager: Roberto Bentjerodt
Project ID: LK-GE-35828                                  Sector: Agriculture
Lending Instrument:                                     PTI:        [x] Yes             [] No
Project Financing Data                  []  Loan       [   Credit       [   Guarantee    [x]  Other (GEF
grant)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.57 SDR: 3. 4 million
Proposed Terms:                           [X]  Multicurrency        []  Single currency
Grace period (years):              []   Standard Variable    []  Fixed            []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:
Commitment fee: %               Not applicable
Service charge: %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local               Foreign             Total
Government                                                     0.41                 0.09               0.50
Cofinanciers
IBRD/IDA
GEF                                                            3.22                 1.35               4.57
Other (specify)
Other (specify)
Borrower:
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     1998        1999        2000        2001    2002         2003
Annual 0.43        0.96         0.99       0.90     0.87         0.42
Cumulative 0.43        1.40        2.38        3.28     4.15        4.57
For Guarantees: Not applicable                     []   Partial Credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                 [     Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: By March 15, 1998                       Closing date: June 30, 2003



I



Block 1: Project Description
A. Project Development Objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
1.    The objective of this project is to conserve globally and nationally significant medicinal plants,
their habitats, species and genomes and promote their sustainable use in Sri Lanka.
B. Project Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown):
Component                       Category                     Cost Incl.    Y%Of
Contingencies    lta
(US$M)
Expansion of in situ    1. Establishment of MPCAs.             approximately 2.07  41%
conservation: this will
include the installation of  2. Baseline data collection.
Medicinal Plant
Conservation Areas     3. Development of Village Action Plans.
(MPCAs) in five areas
(Bibile, Ritigala, Naula,   4. Sustainability studies
Rajawaka and Kanneliya)
where there is active  5. Conservation Strategy for MPCAs
collection from the wild.
6. Extension and Education in the MPCAs.
Expansion of ex situ   1. Establishment of two new nurseries.  approximately 0.48  9 %
cultivation and
conservation           2. Improve existing nurseries.
3. Research on propagation.
4. Home gardening and plantation research.
5. Dissemination of research results.
Information and         1. Promotion of appropriate legal and policy  approximately 2.52  50 %
institutional support  environment through studies and
- -               recommendations for regulations.
2. Establishment of information network on
medicinal plants.
3. Training and mass awareness on
medicinal plant conservation.
4. Monitoring and evaluation.
5. Support for project management,
coordination and advisory functions.
TOTAL                                                          5.07 million       100%



2
C. Benefits and Target Population
2.    The project's benefits accrue at both global and local level. Global benefits of this project will
include the conservation of rare and endemic medicinal plants. At least 189 species of 1,414 medicinal
plants used in Sri Lanka are endemic to the island (or geographically restricted to the Indian sub-
continent) including 79 species which are threatened. Even among the non-endemic species found in Sri
Lanka, the indigenous populations often represent types that are distinct from those found elsewhere.
Conservation of these plants will secure the continued existence of these rare and endemic species of
plants. Another global contribution of the project will be the preservation of traditional knowledge on
medicinal plants. Practitioners knowledge of plants and their uses will be globally recognized and the
source of this knowledge will be easily identifiable. Laboratory research on plants and their uses will
also augment existing information on this subject. Research on identification of methods and levels of
sustainable extraction will help to improve global knowledge on sustainable cultivation of medicinal
plants.
3.    Benefits at the local level will include increased choices of livelihood and better income
opportunities for people who will be involved in home gardening and plant cultivation. Further, MPCAs
will induce a small increase in income for local communities. The project will also broaden people's
choices of livelihood by promoting alternative sources of income generation. Management of MPCAs
and educational site visits will provide employment to local people. The project's focus on community
participation will promote community involvement in resource conservation and more equitable sharing
of natural resources and benefits. The project will also clarify the role of the community and
governmental agencies in resource management.
4.    National benefits of the project will include improved supply of medicinal plants. Improved
information will be available on factors which affect the supply of plants and existing sources of
knowledge will be compiled and preserved in-country to maximize national benefits. An analysis of
market factors will promote greater efficiency in the production of traditional medicine and remove
supply side inconsistencies which hinder their availability throughout the year. Further, the project will
promote sustainable use of natural resources through managing critically endangered habitats and
monitoring its rate of regeneration. The project will also build skills and increase awareness on the
importance of conserving medicinal plants.
5.    Target Population: The project will work in close collaboration with local people to devise a
strategy for the planning and implementation of activities. Through its alternative income generating
activities, the project will also target people inhabiting villages close to the five MPCAs. The project
will specifically target the growers of medicinal plants and improve their skills through a training and
extension program. Additionally, the project will make every effort to include women, poor
households and indigenous people in project activities. Practitioners of traditional medicine will also
form an important target group and their knowledge of plants and uses will be compiled and
preserved. Another target group will be the visitors attracted to the sites who will gain information on
plants and whose visits will be a source of income for the local communities.
D. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
6.    Institutional Arrangements: A temporary project management unit (PMU) will be established
at the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine (MIM). The PMU will be headed by a Project
Director (PD), supported by a Program Officer reporting to the Secretary, MIM. The PMU will



3
implement the Project through line departments, provincial councils and other institutions. The
implementation of project activities will be the responsibility of the respective cooperating agencies
under the overall coordination of the Project Director. As this project involves a diverse set of
stakeholders with a substantial involvement at the provincial level, the long term commitment of the
provincial administration will be ensured by the MIM entering into a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with the Provincial Councils detailing the cooperation and collaboration required, together with
the arrangements for disbursement of funds. The Provincial Commissioner of Department of Ayurveda
will act as a focal point who will overlap with the PD and the implementing agencies in the provinces.
7.   To facilitate the implementation of village based activities, the project will identify and
organize Community Based Organizations (CBOs) to participate in the project. The CBOs will be
structured to ensure full scale community involvement in the planning and, later, management of the
MPCAs. The project will establish a Village Project Management Committee (VPMC) consisting of
community representatives and representatives of the concerned State agencies for local planning. An
umbrella organization, the Conservation Area Management Committee (CAMC) will oversee the-
management of the herbarium, nursery, dispensary and the information center based at each MPCA. It
will consist of representatives of the concerned State agencies, the Project Officer of the project
management office established for the conservation area, and representatives of the relevant state
organizations. The VPMC and CAMC will function in the five MPCAs only, and will be guided by a
Provincial Project Management Committee (PPMC) at the provincial level. Comprising of
representatives of government agencies and NGOs, the PPMC will meet quarterly to oversee the
implementation of project activities including monitoring and evaluation, approve plans of action and
other related matters.
8.  The project will have a National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) to provide overall
guidance for project implementation and to ensure that project activities are consistent with the
agreed objectives. The NPSC will also approve annual work plans and budgets for the project. The
MIM has suggested that the NPSC will be composed of the Secretaries in charge of Indigenous
Medicine, Lands, Agriculture, Plantation Industries, Environment and Forests, the heads of the
Departments of Forestry, Wildlife Conservation, the Commissioner of Ayurveda, representatives of
the Department of External Resources, participating Provincial Councils, and other relevant
institutions, NGOs and parties.
Implementation Period: Five years
9.  Executing Agencies: The Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine will be the principal
project executing agency with the Department of Ayurveda in charge of project management. Other
agencies directly involved in implementation of project activities include the Forest Department and
the Department of Wildlife. The project will link with the following entities (i) Provincial Councils of
provinces where MPCAs will be established; (ii) the Agriculture Department's Extension and
Communication Center in Peradeniya; (iii) NGOs established in the areas covered by the MPCAs.



4
10.  Project Oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Project Oversight will be provided by the National
Project Steering Committee.
I1.   A joint international/national advisory group will meet in years 1, 3 and 5 of the project and
will hold workshops in those years to promote a forum for scientific and technical exchange of
regional and global importance.
12.   Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: Disbursement of funds from
the PMU will be based on an annual allocation and on an approved program of work. The cooperating
agencies will establish separate accounts for the project. These accounts, together with supporting
documentation will provide a comprehensive record of project financing and expenditures. Assurances
will be sought from the MIM that: (a) project accounts will be maintained and audited annually with
sound auditing standards applied by independent and qualified auditors will be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months after the closing of each fiscal year; and (c) that the Special Account will be
audited annually and an audited statement of the account and the auditor's report will be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. The formats for accounting reports will
be developed and agreed between the PMU, the Bank and the Auditor General. Certification of audit
reports will be the responsibility of the Secretary, MIM, who will be the chief accounting officer.
Auditing of accounts will be done by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka. Financial progress reports
indicating financial and physical progress will be made on a quarterly basis to ensure that up to date
accounting books are maintained.
The PMU will transfer funds as an imprest, at the beginning of each year to the cooperating agencies
on the basis of the agreed workplan. The imprest will be renewed at regular intervals by the
submission of statement of accounts for the previous implementation period.
13.  Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: M&E will be the primary responsibility of
Project Officer and staff . However, overall responsibility will lie with the Project Director who will
head the Project Management Unit to be set up within the Department of Ayurveda. The M&E
findings will be reported to the National Project Steering Committee by the Project Management
Unit. The project will also assign a provincial officer for M&E at least on a part time basis. M&E at
the community level is critical to the smooth operation of the project. Once project activities are in
place, small committees will be formed at the community level, chaired by a person elected by the
community itself for this purpose. M&E at the next level will be undertaken by the District Ayurveda
Conservation Committees which will select representatives from the communities to monitor project
activities. The Ayurveda Conservation Committee through its representation on the Provincial Project
Management Committee will link communities at provincial level for M&E. In addition, the project
will contract the impact monitoring of activities to an independent multi disciplinary team from an
independent research institution or university.
Block 2: Project Rationale
Latest CAS discussion, May 21, 1996, Document No. 15633-CE.
A. CAS Objective(s) Supported by the Project:
14.  This project fits the CAS objectives to be pursued jointly by GoSL and the Bank. In particular,
the conservation of natural resources is one area of priority of this strategy. Other country strategies that
this project will contribute to include: (i) poverty reduction by the potential increase and diversification



5
of home gardening and plantation productivity; and (ii) institutional reform to ensure optimal
cooperation and participation of private/public sectors and strengthening of institutions where there are
clearly valid roles for them. The project is well integrated in Sri Lanka's NEAP and other related
national development plans (in Forestry and Indigenous Medicine mainly) and is one of the areas of
priority covered in Sri Lanka's Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP).
B. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
15.  Decreasing populations of medicinal plants is the key issue in the sector. The factors which
contribute to this are as follows:
16.  Unsustainable collection and cultivation practices: The number and quality of medicinal plants is
adversely affected by overharvesting and lack of care to their habitat when collecting plants from the
wild. Overharvesting of plants is directly linked to the high demand for Ayurvedic medicines. Currently
60% of the demand for medicinal plants is met through imports. The domestic production which meets
the remaining demand, does so through over-exploitation of indigenous plant resources. Since most of
the supply for plants is from the wild, this has led to overharvesting of wild populations of species.
Nursery capacity and cultivation in home gardens, which has the potential to increase supply of plants
and thus take the pressure off wild stocks, is too restricted at present to meet the demand. In addition,
increased demand for agricultural land and unsustainable cultivation practices such as shifting cultivation
and 'Chena" or slash and burn cultivation destroy plant habitat. As a result about 79 species of medicinal
plants are immediately threatened with extinction.
17.  Lack of information, awareness and technical skills on medicinal plants and their uses: Since no
comprehensive analysis of social and economic causes of plant loss has yet been undertaken, the key
causes and effects of plant loss are not clear. Further, the lack of comprehensive and authoritative
information on medicinal plants hinders an assessment of their status, implementation of activities
necessary for preserving their habitat and monitoring the effect of rehabilitative efforts. At present either
the sources of knowledge are contradictory (e.g. several plants are identified under different names and
uses by practitioners of traditional medicine) or are scattered and fragmentary.
18.  Sri Lanka is fortunate to have a rich stock of indigenous knowledge on medicinal plants due to a
large number of practitioners of traditional medicine. However, this important source of knowledge is
currently under threat as little effort has been made to understand and document their knowledge. As a
result, the death of a practitioner signifies a net loss to the pool of this important source of information. A
shortage of skills in ethnobotany is a key reason underlying the loss of this knowledge and hindered
effective conservation strategies.
19.  Government Strategy: Realizing the value of medicinal plants, GoSL has taken several steps to
conserve them, for instance, through formation of medicinal plant gardens and Protected Areas (PAs).
Despite the lack of resources and technical expertise, GoSL has taken measures for both in situ and ex
situ conservation. In situ conservation is undertaken by various Departments through a system of PAs for
which Sri Lanka has reserved 12% of its land area. Managed by the Forestry and Wildlife Conservation
Departments, PAs play an important role in conservation through maintaining natural habitats of wild
plants and animals. Ex situ conservation has included the formation of medicinal plant gardens and
nurseries. The Department of Ayurveda has established three medicinal plant gardens, some with support
form the IJNDP, WHO and WWF, and two extension centers. Smaller gardens are maintained at district
Ayurvedic hospitals. In addition, a 100 hectare medicinal plant garden has been established at
Kataragama which is now under the administration of the Department of Town and Country Planning.
Other efforts in this sector include demonstration plots set up by the Forest Department.
20.  Despite Sri Lanka's commitment to the sector, its ability to provide increased resources and



6
attention to conservation and sustainable use of medicinal plants is limited due to other political and
economic priorities. Consequently, funding for key ministries dealing with the conservation of medicinal
plants, such as the Ministry of Forestry and Environment (MFE) and MIM, is expected to maintain
current expenditures roughly adjusted for inflation. While conservation of plants through PAs is an
important means of addressing plant loss, other factors such as lack of skills, information, improved ex
situ conservation, research and methods to increase the supply also merit close attention. Through
addressing these concerns, the project will enhance and augment the sector strategy pursued so far and
complement ongoing conservation projects by GoSL and donors.
C. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project:
21.  Inadequate Management of Habitats where Medicinal Plants are Found in the Wild: Through
creation of five Medicinal Plants Conservation Areas (MPCAs), the project will sustain wild populations
of key plant species, monitor their population, harvesting and regeneration patterns and implement
programns to conserve threatened species. The MPCAs are situated in areas which host populations of
threatened and endemic species and where plant habitat is currently under threat. Management of habitat
in MPCAs will be undertaken according to management plans drawn with the aid of participatory
planning. Management plans will establish zones for-defining the types of activities that can be carried
out without undue damage to plant habitats. The nature and extent of human activities in the plant habitat
will be discussed and agreed with local communities. Extension and awareness building activities will
train collectors to harvest wild plants without damaging their habitat.
22.  Habitat management will also include measures to reduce overharvesting of plants. Management
of MPCAs will include enrichment planting to increase plant populations. Enhancement of nursery
capacity and support for home gardening and community cultivation of plants will increase the supply of
plants and take pressure off wild stocks which are overharvested to meet their high demand. The project
will also conduct research to ascertain methods and levels of sustainable cultivation and pilot the results
from research in MPCAs. Research will also identify plant uses and characteristics and it is likely that
this information will be useful in substituting overused plants with those readily available to reduce the
threat to overharvested species.
23.  Lack of Knowledge and Awareness on the Conservation of Medicinal Plants: The project will
promote mass awareness of the importance of conservation through (i) promoting educational site visits
to the five MPCAs; (ii) development of school curricula to include information on medicinal plants; (iii)
publishing handbooks and manuals containing information on-plants for the use of practitioners; (iv)
conducting research and inventories to better understand the number of plant species, their uses,
propagation and cultivation, sustainable levels of cultivation and the possibility of substituting threatened
species with those that are widely available; (v) enhancing existing knowledge through compiling
existing databases of plants; and (vi) conducting ethnobotanical studies to understand the traditional
uses of medicinal plants.
24.  Inadequate Technical Skills to Allow the Cost-Effective Conservation of Species. Natural
Habitats and Knowledge Related to Medicinal Plants: In addition to the specific training needs identified
for the implementation of the in-situ conservation and ex-situ cultivation and conservation components
of the project, training in specialized disciplines will be supported under the project. The project will
finance some specialized post-graduate level training positions in ethnobotany and sustainable
management in suitable institutions outside the country. This training will be available to staff of the



7
Departments of Ayurveda and Forestry, universities and research institutions.
25.   Teacher training will also be conducted to include the development of teaching material on
medicinal plants and their conservation, discussions and review of materials by curriculum developers
for integration into existing syllabi, teacher orientation through seminars and workshops.
D. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
26.   Extending and supporting the existing network of PAs to conserve medicinal plants in the wild
was the primary alternative to the project. This may have resulted in increased populations of plants in
the wild but not addressed the threat to plant populations due to unsustainable use. Current activities by
GoSL and other donors in the sector already encompass the conservation of plants in the wild through
formation of PAs. Instead, the proposed project manages the threat to wild populations of plants through
increasing their supply. The formation of MPCAs to propagat, and cultivate species, building of nursery
capacity and conducting targeted research on plants will contribute to increasing the supply of plants
without placing pressure on wild stocks. In addition, the project strengthens the policy and legal
instruments for the promotion of sustainable use of plants. The project's approach, therefore,
consolidates the "gains" made by PAs in conserving plants in the wild and ensures increase in plant
populations by addressing the issues of sustainable use.
27.  Support to individual components of the project (nursery development, for example) would have
increased the supply of plants but not made an overall impact on the demand, supply and usage of plants.
Additionally, the larger socio-economic, policy and legal issues would not have been addressed.
28. Other cost effectiveness considerations which have led to the rejection of alternative activities are
mentioned below.'
29.  The without project alternative would have led to further depletion of medicinal plant populations
given the present and projected demand levels. This would mean a permanent loss in the country's stock
of natural resources. The project aims to stop the decrease in wild populations of plants and aims to
conserve threatened species which would be lost in a "without project" scenario.
E. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue                  Bank Project                         Latest form 590 ratings
(Bank financed projects
only)
Sustainable forestry,         Forest Sector Development Project             S
enhancement of technical skills   (Completed/World Bank)
Enhancement of technical skills,   Environmental Action I Project           S
institutional development,    (Ongoing/World Bank).
awareness building.
Training and skills enhancement.  Biodiversity Skills Enhancement
For a fuller discussion, please see Block 3, section on Fiscal Impact.



8
Program (Ongoing/World Bank and
MacArthur Foundation).
Other development agencies
Community involvement in forest Participatory Forestry Project
management.                   (Ongoing/ADB)
Institutional development,    Ritigala Community Participatory
sustainable cultivation of plants.   Program (Ongoing/USAID-Asia
Foundation).
Skills enhancement            Medicinal Plant technical assistance
project (Completed/WHO/UNDP)
Sustainable cultivation of plants   Opanaike Medicinal Plant Nursery
Program (Ongoing/GEF Small Grants)
Skills enhancement, capacity  Wildlife Conservation Project
building and expansion of     (Ongoing/GEF-UNDP).
protected areas
Conservation through community  Knuckles and Sinharaja Conservation
involvement.                  Program (NORAD/IUCN)
F. Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
30.  Consensus on Project Objectives: The project has been sensitive to the need for developing a
stakeholder consensus on project objectives. A series of workshops and brainstorming sessions with
government agencies, Ayurveda practitioners, research institutions and NGOs were held to clarify key
issues and arrive at a common understanding of objectives. This participatory approach will continue
during project implementation and local communities will be closely involved in developing
management plans aimed at reaching project objectives.
31.  Community Involvement and Inclusion of Disadvantaged Groups: The Ritigala Program has
provided a recent example of community involvement in the management of natural resources. This
lesson has been applied in the proposed project by means of adopting a participatory approach, instead of
"top down" planning. Local communities will be fully involved in the planning and implementation of
conservation activities around MPCAs. Village level institutions which represent all segments of
communities, including women and indigenous people, will be formed to coordinate and plan activities,
monitor the impact of implementation activities and mobilize local support. The project also incorporates
a strategy for supporting communities in pursuing alternative livelihood strategies which are not
damaging to plant habitat. To facilitate community involvement, NGOs and CBOs will be co-opted to
discuss and outline with communities their choices on alternative livelihoods, raise awareness on the
importance of conservation and disseminate cultivation practices and home gardening. The
implementation of alternative livelihood strategies will be based on the active cooperation of local
communities and NGOs.
32. Inter-Agency Collaboration: A key lesson learnt and applied by the project is the need for
effective interagency cooperation and coordination. Since the project will involve various governmental



9
agencies such as MIM, Department of Agriculture, Department of Wildlife Conservation and the
Ministry of Forestry and Environment, inter agency coordination is vital for its success. The project has
sought to develop interagency coordinatioti through representation of the concerned governmental
agencies in the Project Management Team and the National Steering Committee during the preparation
phase. Continuing this approach during the implementation phase, the project will ensure inter-agency
collaboration through having representatives from state agencies on VPMCs, CAMCs and PPMCs. In
addition, MIM will enter into a MoU with other provincial councils and departments involved in the
functioning of MPCAs.
G. Indications of Beneficiary Commitment and Ownership
33.  GoSL's commitment to and ownership of the proposed project is evident from the proactive role
played by MFE and MIM in overseeing project preparation, keen participation in the Biodiversity
Working Group and related workshops organized for the project. MIM as the implementing agency has
also formed a Project Management Unit and a Steering Committee to guide project development and
implementation. GoSL's commitment is also evident from the willingness to review legislation related
to Intellectual Property Rights.
H. Value Added of GEF and Bank Support
34. GEF support will enable the project to target globally valued and threatened plants for
conservation. As a result, MPCAs have been proposed for areas which are rich in threatened and
endemic plants but with high levels of extraction. Propagation programs have also targeted threatened
and endemic species which have, hitherto, not received adequate attention. Secondly, GEF's support will
enable the project to supplement conservation activities with those aimed at promoting sustainable use of
plants. Given the demand for Ayurvedic medicine, increasing supply through wider cultivation is
necessary to promote sustainable use of plants. However, in accordance with the GEF Operational
Strategy which states that "biodiversity and sustainable use must also be achieved outside the designated
PAs", the project supplements the activities aimed at increasing supply with policy and legal changes
necessary for preventing the loss of globally valued plants. GEF's support for "conservation of
biodiversity and its sustainable use" will enable this project to address the reasons for plant loss through
a multi faceted approach. Thirdly, GEF support will be instrumental in gaining valuable knowledge of
plants through data collection. Targeted research on threatened plants will enrich the activities of the
current project but also be valuable for the world at large. Lastly, GEF's support for preserving
indigenous knowledge will be valuable in ensuring that the originators of this knowledge are recognized
at a global level and are eligible to receive any economic benefits from its commercial use.
35.  The Bank will add value to the project through coordinating and ensuring the support of
government agencies and donors that have been active in the sector. The Bank has played an active role
in developing the NEAP and has supported the Biodiversity Action Plan which was completed recently.
This project also extends the Bank's current efforts in the sector such as Environmental Action I Project
and Forestry Sector Project which have aimed at conservation and strengthening of environmental
institutions.



10
Block 3: Summaay Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See
Annex 8)
A. Economic    []  Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$  [   Cost         [x] Other
Assessment (see     million; ERR= %                    Effectiveness     (Incremental cost
Annex 4):                                              Analysis:         analysis)
Economic Analysis:
36.  As a stand-alone GEF project, the principal economic evaluation criterion to be considered was
the "incremental cost" justification as discussed at the end of this section. In addition, the economic
analysis included a least cost analysis early in the selection of strategy and investment options. In
addition, a systems analysis of the proposed MPCAs is now under preparation to explicate the
relationships between medicinal plants, communities and the primary features of their environments.
Using the graphic formalism of object relationship modeling, this analysis aims to describe the 'system'
of incentives that govern the supply, demand, over- or under-exploitation of medicinal plants within the
broad natural and man-made contexts that are of interest to the project. The object relationship model
(ORM) developed for the MPCAs will concretely indicate the points of contact between the project and
this 'system' and portray how the system should change as a consequence of the project's
implementation. As critical elements of the system, the project's primary stakeholders appear in the
model. These include collectors of raw materials, processors, farmers and other local households and
other outsiders. The ORM should also aid the interpretation of the data to be collected as part of the
project. At present, there is little reliable data on the supply or demand of various plants and plant
products: the growth and yield studies and the socio-economic surveys to be conducted throughout the
project period will be critical for filling this gap. These data will help determine whether a modified
system as described in the ORM is indeed sustainable. Only when these data are available, along with a
fuller understanding of the pharmaceutical and ecological values of the plants, would it make sense to
judge whether the investment costs proposed in the project are high, or not, as compared to the value of
maintaining the option of studying the plants in their natural environment. Even if one were to consider
all project costs as being related directly or indirectly-to the establishment of the MPCAs, the economic
cost of the project would then total less than US$500 per hectare of the MPCAs over the life of the
project. Such a cost would not be so great as to require expectations of implausibly high future returns to
maintaining the areas' biodiversity - especially by comparison to the pharmaceutical prospecting values
that have been estimated for other similar biodiversity 'hotspots'. Pharmaceutical prospecting value,
moreover, is not the sole source of the biodiversity value of such areas.
Incremental Cost Analysis
37.  Incremental costs of the project total US $ 4.57 million and cover the costs of financing the GEF
alternative. Operationally, this means that GoSL will provide US $ 0.5 million as counterpart financing
for development commitments which would have occurred in the absence of the GEF alternative. These
include village economic development activities, civil works for Ayurvedic medicinal centers, drug
supplies, staff allowances, taxes and duties which are not eligible for GEF financing. Regarding
incremental benefits to the domestic economy, the proposed project is not expected to lead to an increase
over the baseline scenario in the overall number of families who will enjoy an improvement in income
through participation in village economic development. The proposed project would not add to currently
planned development activities: it would influence the prioritization of the location of village
development without relevant distributional consequences. The number of villages and households that
would be so affected is indeterminate, but for working figures up to 200 villages and 2000 households
might participate in village economic devolopment sooner under the proposed project than they would



11
have under the baseline scenario. Also, there is no basis for assuming that the growth in incomes of
families within the impact areas of the proposed botanic MPCAs would be higher than could be expected
in general for families benefiting from village economic development without the project. Accordingly,
the project should not lead to a significant change, from baseline expectations, in the overall level of net
employment and should not have special, incremental impacts on any one particular sector of the
economy. However, the project will ensure sustainability of income, remove the cyclical nature of
income for most families living around MPCAs and increase choices of livelihood. The project could
also contribute towards maintaining a certain quality of life by preserving the feasibility of traditional
health care options.
Fiscal Impact
38.   The proposed project is not expected to have significant long run incremental fiscal impacts: as
described in Annex 5, the management of the five proposed medicinal plant conservation areas, the
project's focus, is designed to be self-financing through the implementation of community participation
and the development of educational site visits to the sites.
39.  The community-based management strategy of the MPCAs should strongly favor the long-term
viability of this key component by developing incentives for surrounding villages to maintain their
environmental integrity. This is also an approach that minimizes Government recurrent expenditures:
the main recurrent costs are for the O&M of local botanical gardens/nurseries and of local Ayurvedic
dispensaries and information centers. These costs are small and within the ability of local communities to
support through economic activities that will develop around the MPCAs. As discussed above, several
alternatives for the project's design were rejected for their fiscal implications. The botanical gardens
established and improved to store genetic material representative of all eco-agricultural zones are
intended to provide planting materials and stock at cost to private nurseries. Financed research will
verify within the project period the direct applicability of technical options for implementation in the
field or on the farm. Capacity building under the project will develop in-country technical expertise to
facilitate the replication of activities in other area. Only temporary support is required for project
management structures: the project from the start endeavors to implement activities through the multi-
disciplinary planning and the strong coordination of existing organizations.
40.  The formation of Strict Nature Reserves with vigilant enforcement of non extraction of plants was
the primary alternative for the in situ component. This was rejected for being socially disruptive and
fiscally expensive. Enclosure would not address the requirements of local inhabitants to supplies of
medicinal plants and the recurrent costs following the completion of such a operation would be high and
ultimately unsustainable. The present approach seeks to develop incentives for maintaining the integrity
of the MPCAs by surrounding populations through their involvement in the joint management of areas.
In contrast to enclosures, the recurrent costs of the participatory approach are expected to be modest and
associated with essentially private sector activities that would be self-financing. The present approach
would also seek to involve NGO assistance where available as a means of using the project's resources to
mobilize additional outside resources to participating communities.
41.  The ex situ component restricts activities mainly to areas of horticultural research that have a good
promise of providing results that can be directed into existing extension networks in the country. The
pursuit of a nation-wide promotion of farming medicinal plants through the provision of input or output
subsidies would have contravened present directions of national agricultural policy and costly to
administer. Morcover, it would have been difficult to justify the use of subsidies to mitigate the risk of
farmers learning to cultivate such crops.



12
42.  Research under the project would not duplicate laboratory facilities already available in the
country, and would focus on strictly applied or adaptive research. Investments in bio-technology
research were judged as not being cost-effective and requiring substantial financial support over the long
term.
43.  Under the information and institutional support component, the project will promote policy
reforms only in those areas for which legislated regulatory authority has already been established. The
drafting of new legislation would require substantially more resources for research and consultation than
would the present focus of drafting regulations, and would offer a lower promise of delivered outputs by
the time of the completion of the project. Training for departmental capacity building concentrates on
individuals and skills most directly supportive of the project's participative strategy for in situ
conservation. The project avoids wide-scale general training of staff in environmental awareness
concerning medicinal plants to intensify resources on producing a corps of highly qualified professionals
in sustainable management. These individuals are likely to have a much stronger and ultimately more
pervasive impact on their institutions than broad institution-wide alternatives. The project's
development of an information network on medicinal plants favors the use of resources to link existing
databases rather than construct a new, independent structure. Considerable resources have already been
sunk in the compilation of data at several sites. Linking these sites and facilitating access to them would
be a more manageable output to deliver at minimum incremental cost than a wholly new, centralized data
bank.
B. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)  NPV=US$       million; FRR=  %
44.  A chief concern of the project is to devise mechanisms for cost recovery. To ensure that this
concern is adequately addressed; the project incorporates activities which are able to cover their costs
such as botanical gardens, medical and information centers. The recurrent costs associated with these
activities are not calculated to be high (estimated at $ 30,000, about 5% of MIM's non-development
budget for Indigenous Medicine) and will be financed through user fees and other charges. Enhancement
of nursery capacity will also recover its costs through sale of seeds, plants and other related planting
materials. Through user fees, charges and other activities, educational site visits also have the capacity to
be financially sustainable. Educational site visits will be promoted according to observed demand for use
of two MPCAs. The development of educational site visits will first be applied to Kanneliya and Ritigala
and the lessons learnt from these (including mechanisms for cost recovery) will guide development of
other MPCAs as visit sites.
C. Technical Assessment
45.  GEF's Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel's (STAP) review of the project concept had
indicated that one of the main technical contributions of this project would be in the determination of
sustainable levels of harvesting and cultivation of medicinal plants. In addition to addressing Sri Lanka's
national priorities, the STAP review indicated that the project "serves GEF's purpose as a meaningful
activity to both people in rural areas as well as at institutions in urban centers, and serves as a model that
can be propagated elsewhere. Over the next decade, it will become increasingly difficult for the ca. 3.5 -
4.0 billion people world-wide who require native plants for the provision of their primary health care to
obtain these essential materials. Unless studies such as proposed in this project are implemented on a
significant scale, as we approach the third millennium there will be a severe shortage of plants utilized in
primary heath care".
46.  Furthermore, the project integrates the following technical aspects that were identified by the
STAP review: (i) selection of medicinal plants is based on the degree of exhaustion of these plants in the



13
wild as well as indications of increased demand by local markets; (ii) thorough ethnobotanical and
ecological studies are essential for the determination of "sustainable" harvest in the wild; (iii) the project
will try to promote the continued flow of economic benefits to local people following the completion of
the project; (iv) an external advisory panel is important to guide the project and to help resolve
difficulties, refine strategies, make connections with global efforts elsewhere, including sustainable
harvesting and the promotion of traditional medicines; (v) within agreed criteria for the protection of
intellectual property rights, it will be important to publish all data (negative and positive) resulting from
this project; (vi) to keep the focus of the project on sustainable management strategies, the production of
data base of medicinal plants will be based on filling the gap from existing data bases rather than an
exhaustive and resource-intensive exercise; and (vii) some degree of assistance in inputs and instruction
may be required by farmers involved in propagation and cultivation of the medicinal plants, but by the
end of the project, no outside assistance would be required by these farmers/home gardeners.
D. Institutional Assessment
47.  An assessment of the institutions involved in this project revealed the following areas of strengths
and deficiencies that were taken into consideration in project design. Areas of Strength: The Ayruvedic
Department of MIM has been involved, at a pilot scale, in a number of actions that are directly related to
the project. In particular, plant taxonomic work, data management, and interaction with collectors,
growers, and processors of medicinal plants are all experiences that will benefit project implementation,
especially concerning ex-situ conservation, propagation of processing. For in-situ conservation, the
Forest Department, MFE has experience in joint management of forest resources with the private sector
(leasing of plantations to private businesses) and local communities (through the Participatory Forestry
Project mainly). For participatory village development planning, a number of rural NGOs have field
experience that will be sought around the MPCA component. Areas of Institutional Weakness include the
key areas of technical and administrative capabilities for sustainable harvesting and cultivation of plants.
Weakness of skills in ethnobotany hinder the development of methods, implementation and monitoring
of sustainable levels of harvesting. With respect to cultivation of plants, further research needs to be
conducted together with skills enhancement for implementing wider propagation of plants and provision
of extension services in agriculture sector. Finally, MIM does not have a group to monitor overall project
impact. The project will address these institutional deficiencies by: (i) providing technical assistance and
training in some key areas; (ii) establishing output-oriented, multi-sectoral, project management
committees at the provincial and the MPCA-level; (iii) creating institutional linkages for better inter
agency cooperation, (iv) providing international support through the technical advisory committee; and
(v) covering the contracting of an external institution for the monitoring and evaluation of overall project
impact.
E. Social Assessment:
Socio-Economic Characteristics
48.  Preliminary analysis shows that except for Kanneliya, which has a relatively lower poverty rate
and more opportunities for employment, all villages are characterized by high level of poverty, high
dependency ratio and low level of literacy. The economy of these villages is largely agrarian and there is
a high level of dependence on Non Timber Forest Products (NTFPs). Agriculture is insufficient to meet
the subsistence needs of the people throughout the year and poverty is, therefore, intensified during the
dry season when there is no agricultural income. The lack of other employment opportunities combined
with dependence on subsistence agriculture lead to high levels of poverty increasing people's dependence
on forest products and other resources. In particular, land issues are central to poverty since land holdings
are small and nearly all land in these villages belongs to the State with limited freehold rights given to



14
local people.
49. All the above mentioned factors indicate that poverty is a major concern in the villages around
MPCAs. Since people have little access to land, there is high dependence on the collection of medicinal
plants leading to plant loss. The project will address this aspect through home gardening and supporting
community plots for cultivation. The project realizes that links between poverty and over exploitation of
plants are strong and must be addressed if conservation initiatives are to receive local support.
Indigenous People
50.  Of the proposed sites, indigenous groups (Veddhas) are found only in Bibile. At present about 35
families represent this group. They are the descendants of displacees from an earlier project in late 1 940s.
Their dependence on NTFPs including medicinal plants is very high compared to other villages since
they do not rely on agriculture.
51.  Project design is tailored to ensure that indigenous people are included in the village development
activities and decision making structures. Due to their high level of poverty and dependence on medicinal
plants for existence, they will form an important stakeholder group. NGOs with experience of working
with indigenous people will be co-opted for working with these groups. Their specific economic and
social needs and religious beliefs will be incorporated in developing village based activities.
Social Issues Addressed by the Project
52.  Project design is based on the premise that sustainability of MPCAs depends on the nature of
human interactions with the resources contained therein. As a result the project takes a participatory
approach to involving local people in planning and management and will not lead to any resettlement.
The specific areas where the project will have an impact are outlined below:
53.  Project Impact: If successful, the project will ultimately reduce the seasonal variation of income
and dependence on extraction of species in the wild. As noted above, the agricultural economy of many
villages is subject to the vagaries of weather. In the absence of off-farm employment on an appreciable
scale, seasonal poverty is rampant. This will be achieved through a planned system of cultivation of
medicinal plants in home gardens and through their propagation. These activities will enable more people
to eliminate seasonal variations in income through involvement in production, processing and other
ancillary activities.. In particular, the project will benefit women and female headed households.
54.  Secondly, the project will reduce people's dependence on extensive use of land. Home gardening
and community plots will make efficient use of land resources, the absence of which has led to
encroachments on state land in the past.
55.  Thirdly, the project's village based participatory management of resources will create a sense of
ownership in the communities. This is envisaged as an essential outcome of alternative income
generation activities as people realize the benefits that they can derive from the project. Further,
participatory resource planning will resolve land management issues since the process will take into
consideration not only conservation needs but also issues regarding community rights, access to land and
user rights. The assurance that they are the custodians of natural resources will foster the communities'
sense of ownership over forests and their products.
56.  Negative Impacts and their Mitigation: With the formation of MPCAs and project
implementation, some controls are bound to be placed on people's use of forests, particularly in areas



15
where species are over extracted. This is not likely to be welcomed by people who have had uncontrolled
access to species and have extracted them in a destructive way. Awareness programs will be carried out
which can change the attitudes of people through realizing that conservation is a sustainable means of
assuring a continued income.
57.  The proposed activities will also increase the work load of people. However, as economic benefits
are felt by communities, households may use more members to increase production. There is the
possibility that outside intervention may lead to over extraction of plants, without the consent of local
people. This possibility is strong in case the propagation and home gardening of plants does not yield
economic benefits for local communities. It is envisaged that community involvement will lead to a
greater sense of ownership and establish community rights. Additionally, a local system of marketing
will ensure that communities recognize the importance of conservation over and above excessive
extraction for short term gains.
F. Environmental Assessment: Environment category () A   (x) B  ()C
58.  The project is classified as a "B" category project in accordance with the World Bank's
Operational Directive 4.0 on Environmental Assessment because it is not expected to have major
adverse environmental impacts. The project is expected to have a highly beneficial environmental
impact. No large scale infrastructure improvements are envisaged under project activities to cause
negative environmental impacts and adverse impacts are expected to be minimal because all investments
are small, ecologically sound, and limited in scope.
59.  Project preparation has included an environmental review which confirrned that project activities
would produce wide scale beneficial environmental impacts, by improving productivity of PAs and
buffer zones, increasing the number of medicinal plants especially those which are threatened and
reducing the pressure on wild populations of medicinal plants. Most of the project activities are focused
on the conservation of medicinal plants in five MPCAs and are expected to have beneficial results on
plant populations. Other activities such as cultivation and enrichment in MPCAs and extension to
demonstrate sustainable cultivation are small scale and widely dispersed and are not likely to cause major
soil disturbance or exposure. In addition, these activities do not involve the use of agro chemicals or
pesticides.
60.  Complementary village level investments for alternative income generation activities will also
have beneficial impact on the environment as the small scale low impact activities envisaged under this
component will reduce people's dependence on wild habitats of plants. Similarly, value added activities
will decrease harvesting of plants from the wild by developing incentives for people to sustainably
manage existing populations.
61.  Activities which are likely to have minor negative impact on the environment have been
considered clearly and measures to mitigate adverse impacts have been arranged. For example, the
construction of small scale dispensary and Ayurveda health information and treatment centers in each
MPCA will take place in the dry season so that the potential for soil erosion is reduced. Structures will be
located in the buffer zones and areas around the dispensary will be replanted with medicinal plants to
avoid plant loss. Further, the risk of educational site visits causing over use of the MPCAs and pollution
is expected to be limited. The emphasis of educational site visits ventures will be their social and
environmental benefits to the MPCAs and local communities. Although the project will have no direct
impact on the issues of Intellectual Property Rights and other issues related to genetic patenting, it
supports the strengthening of legislation and policy so that adequate safeguards are in place to prevent
the "piracy" of indigenous knowledge and plants in future. To ensure the protection of indigenous



16
knowledge and plants, GoSL will establish a Committee to develop guidelines and implement controls on
information and resources.
62.  Further, environmental screening will take place through M&E, which will measure project
success and include close review of the ecological impact of the project, beginning with carefully
designed and reliable resource mapping and baseline studies.
G. Participatory Approach
63.  Project identification and formulation has adopted a participatory approach to project preparation.
Stakeholders have provided their input to the preparation process through workshops, consultation
meetings, brain-storming meetings, and field consultations. Key stakeholders that have been consulted
include Ayurveda practitioners, traders, exporters and manufacturers, scientists, policy makers, technical
specialists, NGOs, and local community representatives2. Consultations with stakeholders were intended
to draw on expertise in the formulation of project activities, to identify constraints and issues needing
action, to solicit the views of potential community groups to the concept of the project, to obtain
consensus on the objectives of the project and proposed intervention, and to solicit the support of
stakeholders in project implementation.
64.  Project design entails a participatory approach to implementation and operation. Local
communities, NGOs, researchers, local government agencies, and line agencies would collaborate in the
implementation of the project at the local level. The long-term sustainability of project investments are
premised on the understanding that the operation and maintenance of activities beyond the life of the
project, would be devolved to community level institutions that would be established during the project
period, at the MPCA level. Participation of various stakeholders at different stages of project
preparation, implementation and operation can be summarized as follows (IS = information sharing;
CON = consultation; and COL = collaboration.
Identification/Preparation   Implementation   Operation
Beneficiaries/Community groups    IS/CON                  COL            COL
Intermediary NGOs               IS/CON                    COL            COL
Academic institutions            IS/CON                    COL           COL
Local government                 IS/CON                    COL           COL
Other Donors                    IS/COL                     IS           IS
Participating State Agencies    CON                       COL           COL
National Steering Group         IS/CON                    COL           COL
Advisory Group                                             IS           IS
H. Sustainability
65. Mechanisms for financial sustainability include the self financing nature of project activities. The
costs for maintaining MPCAs, dispensaries and nurseries will be within the reach of the local
communities and the self financing nature of these activities will ensure their financial sustainability.
2 Several NGOs and research institutes participated in workshops organized by the project. They included
Bandranaike Memorial Ayurvedic Institute, WWF, Environmental Foundation, NAREPP Project,
IUCN and Ayurveda Conservation Committee.



17
66. Social sustainability will be assured through involving local people and NGOs in the design and
implementation of the project. The project will ensure that the economic benefits from conservation of
medicinal plants flow to local communities especially those involved in collecting and cultivating
medicinal plants. Representative institutions will be supported at the local level and the clarification of
legal rights will contribute to the social sustainability of the project.
67.  Through increasing the technical skills and capacity of government agencies, the project will also
build a sustainable skill base. Improved local skills will ensure that the technical aspects of the project
such as data collection and maintenance, ethnobotanical surveys and monitoring are continued beyond
the project's life.
L Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project Outputs to Development Objectives (Risk rating 1: lowest, 5: highest)
Risk -             Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Biodiversity conservation          2-3    Public awareness, promotion of educational site visits
(especially related to medicinal
plants) continues to be valued by
society.
Property rights are definable and  3-4     Adoption of suitable regulatory framework
enforceable
In situlex situ conservation will  2-3     Research to identify threatened species of global
preserve globally valuable and             importance
threatened plants.
Project Components to Outputs
Risk               Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Appropriate size of a MPCA.         3      Interaction of joint local/international advisory group
to review and other country experiences
Critical, highly impacting          5      Peer pressure, linkage of project support to verifiable
communities are receptive in               indicators of compliance/cheating.
sufficient numbers to permit
effective management planning
over the whole of selected sites
Enrichment of MPCAs adversely      3-4    frequent monitoring of sustainability studies
affects ecological integrity              throughout implementation
Set of feasible and alternative     3      Detailed socio-economic field surveys that test the
village incomes linked to the              wider applicability of the experiences of the USAID
MPCAs exists.                             funded Ritigala project prior to project start
Continued local interest to         3      Awareness building and educational activities.
preserve Ayurvedic knowledge



18
Overall Project Risk Rating
Risk                Risk Rating
Adequate in country technical       3-4     Strong TA inputs, links to external technical
capability                                  institutions and training
J. Possible Controversial Aspects
68.  Through increasing the supply of medicinal plants, the project increases the risk of increasing
pressures on wild populations of endangered plants to meet even further increases in demands for
Ayurvedic medicine. To manage this risk, the project incorporates targeted research on the uses and
characteristics of plants to allow for the opportunity to substitute endangered plants with other plants
that are not threatened or easily cultivated. Careful monitoring of plant species in MPCAs and
formulation of policy instruments to regulate the use and trade of plants will enable the project to
mitigate the risks from further extraction of wild populations of plants.
69.  The project has been sensitive to the risk of uncontrolled access to genetic material and has
ensured its local ownership. The project has made stringent efforts to ensure that a local consensus is
achieved for information sharing on medicinal plants. Further, the draft regulations concerning
standards, trade, property rights and land use will clarify and strengthen local ownership rights. The
project has also made maximum use of local research institutions to gather information and conduct
research. Further training will enhance local ability to preserve and patent genetic material as an
indigenous natural resource.
Block 4: Main Grant Conditions
A. Conditions for Effectiveness:
(a) MIM shall have selected consultants for operational support to assist in the
implementation of the project.
B. Other
MIM shall:
Project Management
I (a)    establish a Project Management Unit and provide the agreed level of staff and
technical assistance (Management) for its functioning no later than March 15, 1998;
I (b)    by March 15, 1998, confirm to the World Bank that all organizational and
inter-agency coordination arrangements (with Provincial Councils, Wildlife and Forestry
Departments, and other entities, as appropriate) are in place and operational, as per the
MOUs agreed to at appraisal, and covering planning, implementation, research, study,
and monitoring and evaluation activities;
Project Implementation
2      no later than March 15, 1998, ensure that the technical assistance (Operations)
contract for operational support is finalized and key Consultants have started support to
field activities according to the agreed Technical Assistance schedule of all project
activities;



19
3     implement the project according to a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to
the Bank and agreed at appraisal as the same may be revised from time to time in
consultation between GOSL, other stakeholders and the Bank;
4.    maintain polices and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with benchmarks and indicators satisfactory to the
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
5.     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank, by January 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed on the progress achieved in carrying out of the project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
6.    review with the Bank, by April 15, 2000 or such later date as the Bank will
request, the report on monitoring and evaluation activities and thereafter, take all
measures to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and
the Bank's views on the matter.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies wth al 1applicable Bank policies.
[][The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Nadim Khouri                                          erto Bentjerodt
Task Manager:                                       Country Manager:



20
ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators"  Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and
Risks
CAS Objective                                                                            (CAS Objective to Bank
To conserve the natural resources of                                                     Mission)
Sri Lanka.
Stop or reduce deforestation.  International environmental   World Bank/ GEF continue
organizations.             to support biodiversity
Stop or reduce threats to                            conservation.
plant and animal species.  Research reports.
Other political and economic
Improved land use.        Government research and    priorities for Sri Lanka
analysis.                 remain unchanged.
Project Development Objectives:                                                          (Development Objectives to
CAS Objective)
Conservation of globally and       Declining threats to plants    Reports of international
nationally significant medicinal plants,  and increased populations of  environmental watch  Other enviromnental
their habitats, species and genomes  species (especially      organizations (IUCN Red    projects are successfully
and promotion of their sustainable use. threatened species).  Data Book etc, national    implemented;
statistics (Forestry Dept.,
MFE etc.); report of       Ministries, NGOs and local
independent monitors.     people cooperate in the
implementation of
environmental projects;
GOSL continues to regard
environmental conservation
as a priority.
Project Outputs                                                                          (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. A viable participatory          1.1 Village harvest of     1. PMU reports of
management system for medicinal  species within sustainability  sustainability studies;    Biodiversity conservation,
plants operating in MPCAs.     limits defmded by Village      sampling by            especially related to
Action Plan in 30% of         independent technical    medicinal plants, continues
villages by mid-term and      monitors at mid-term   to be valued by society.
100% by project end.          and completion.
Property rights are definable
2. Increased production of selected    2.1 Increase in number of    2. PMU research reports.   and enforceable.
medicinal plants species on farms  medicinal plants for which
and in home gardens.           cost-effective propagation &                          Candidates for training are
cultivation techniques are                           appropriately selected and
available; 25 species trials                         afterwards placed to realise
completed by mid-term, 50                            the effective use of skills.
species trials by project end.
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and fulIl impact.



21                                            ANNEX I
Page 2
2.2 Increase in number and
diversity of medicinal plants
being propagated and grown
in Dept. Ayurveda nurseries;
production increased by
25% by year 3 and 50% by
project end.
2.3 Increase in the number
of farmers using propagation
and agronomic information
generated by the project;
increase of 25% over the
baseline by mid-term and
50% by project end.
3. Enhancement of knowledge on     3. 1 Guidelines developed    3. PMU/independent farm
medicinal plants and capacity  and implemented for the       surveys before and
building for their management  protection of traditional     during project
and sustainable use.           knowledge and plant           interventions including
resources related to project  copping pattems, yield
activities.                   samples, etc.), PMU
documents, functional
3.2 Recommendations           database and output
developed for strengthening   documentation.
legislation and regulations
related to conservation and
use of medicinal plants.
3.3 National database for
medicinal plants established
and functioning; data from
over 500 species entered by
project mid-term and over
1000 species by project end.
3.4 Increase in number of
schools and students
_ -                 exposed to educational
materials produced by the
project.
3.5 Increase in the number
of persons with enhanced
skills in medicinal plants;
local training of over 25
staff by project mid-term
and over 100 staff and post-
graduate and/or placement
training for 5 specialists by
project end.
Project Components                 Input US$ 5.07 million total                         (Components to Outputs)
cost including contingencies
t. Expansion of in situ conservation.



22                                            ANNEX I
Page 3
1.1 US$ 2.07 million total.   PMU project procurement    Lack of iiiformation on the
1.1 Selection and demarcation of   10,000 -12,000 ha (1,000 ha  and disbursement        viable size of a MPCA.
five botanical reserves in the areas of   minimum per MPCA),  documentation.
Bibile, Ritigala, Naula (or Dolukanda)  constituting five MPCAs,                        Adequate attention to key
Rajawaka and Kanneliya.           identified, established and    PMU semi-annual project    technical design and
enriched within framework   implementation reports;  management concerns.
of participatory management  documentation as output of
planning involving local  project activities.        Critical highly impacting
communities.                                         communities are receptive in
Documentation of WB/GEF   sufficient numbers to permit
1.2 Technical advice and  supervision missions       effective management
1.2 Community organization and    training provided on medical  inspecting field work.  planning over the whole of
management planning for botanical    plant cultivation, processing                      selected sights.
reserves (including existing       and marketing.            Project mid term and
Kataragama reserve).                                         completion studies         Guidelines to ensure that site
according to agreed       specific interventions do not
1.3 Awareness of he       WB/GEF technical TORs.    adversely affect ecological
1.3 Enrichment planting of MPCAs    linkages between                                    integrity are implemented.
(where necessary).                 biodiversity and Ayurvedic   PMU training records.
medical practice promoted                            Set of feasible and
in communities.           Reports ofjoint            alternative village incomes
local/international advisory   linked to reserves exists.
1.4 Promotion of alternative village  1.4 Portfolio of activities  group.
incomes linked to maintaining the  researched, tested, supported                        Continued interest to
integrity of MPCAs.               and adopted within                                    preserve transmission of
cooperating villages.                                Ayurvedic knowledge
Research on the sustainable                         through apprenticeship,
use of medicinal plants in                           acquired knowledge and
MPCAs conducted using in                             surveys etc.
part local participation.
Ethnobotanical studies                               Set of criteria guiding
executed.                                           information access is
implemented by MIM.
1.5 Village training.              1.5 Adaptive farm research
Site specific research            conducted to demonstrate                              Sustained interest of key
technicaUfinancial viability                        institutions (MIM,
of cultivable species.                               Provincial Councils, Forest
Dept, MFE, NGOs to pursue
project objectives).
2. US$ 0.48 million total.
2. Expansion of Ex Situ cultivation.
2.1 Two new botanical
2.1 Strengthened protection of genetic  gardens/nurseries
reservoirs.                       established, 3 existing
gardens/nurseries improved
by end of project.
2.2 Research on propagation
2.2 Research in agronomy of selected   of plants representative of
species. Promotion of cultivation of    agro-ecological zones
medicinal plants for harvest and trade.  conducted. Home garden
and plantation research
completed. Research results
disseminated through
existing extension networks.



23                                            ANNEX I
Page 4
3. USS 2.52 million total
3. Information and Institutional
support.                          3.1 Draft regulations
regarding standards, trade,
3.1 Promotion of appropriate legal and  property rights and land use.
policy environment.               Quality standards and
control measures developed.
3.2 Training of departmental
3.2 Database development.         staff, professional education
Departmental capacity building     and mass awareness
campaigns by end of project.
3.3 Support to temporary
3.3 Installation of multi disciplinary    Project Management Unit in
capacity to implement present     MIM, project coordination
environmental project.             committees at national and
provincial levels and joint
local/international advisory
Igroup.



24
ANNEX 2
Page 1
Detailed Project Description
1.     The objective of the project is to secure the active conservation of globally and
nationally significant medicinal plants, their habitats, species, and genomes. This is to be
achieved through the following project components and activities:
Component I:Expansion of In-situ Conservation of Medicinal Plants:($ 2.07 million)
A. Establish Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas
2.     The foundation for in-situ conservation activities will be the identification and
establishment of medicinal plant conservation areas' (MPCA) in regions where there is active
collection of medicinal plants from the wild. The MPCAs are associated with a core
conservation zone where the primary focus of the project is the elimination of human activities
that have a negative impact on the conservation of medicinal plants. Surrounding the core zone
are sustainable use zones and areas where the cultivation of medicinal plants is possible. The
outer boundary of the MPCA is established based on a number of considerations including
access to selected communities, agreement of villagers, availability of land for MPCA facilities,
plant cultivation, and village development activities. The implementation of project activities
will be in accordance with the existing legislation governing each conservation area.
3.     The project will establish MPCAs in five sites from key biogeographic zones: (1)Bibile-
savannah grassland/intermediate zone in the Uva Province, (2) Ritigala-monsoon forest/dry zone
in North-Central Province, (3) Naula-montane forest/intermediate zone in the Central Province,
and (4) Rajawaka-evergreen forest/intermediate zone in the Central Province, and (5) Kanneliya-
lowland rainforest/wet zone in the Southern province. In addition to these five sites, some
project activities relating to in-situ conservation of medicinal plants will also be implemented in
the existing conservation area at Kataragama.
4.     To ensure the active participation of all segments of the community in the project, the
first step in the establishment of the MPCA will be village mobilization. Social mobilizers
working at the MPCA level will be contracted by the project to initiate the discussion about
project objectives and to start organizing at the village level. A local sociologist will also be
contracted to work at the PMU level, and an international sociologist will be contracted to design
an initial workplan and to provide training to the social mobilizers.The provision of the
sociologist and social mobilizers will be part of a comprehensive contract to provide technical
assistance to the PMU for the implementation and supervision of project activities in the five
main medicinal plant areas.
5.     Village level activities will be coordinated by a Village Project Management
Committee (VPMC) which will be set up by the project, except in those cases where other
relevant local institutions already exist. Each VPMC will include at least one representative
The medicinal plant conservation areas will be associated with core conservation zones (i.e. forest
reserves, strict nature reserves, sanctuaries or other forest categories that contain significant
populations of medicinal plant species) and will also include contiguous traditional use zones, buffer
zones, private lands, and/or village lands that influence use patterns within the core forest areas.



25
ANNEX 2
Page 2
from each household in the village. The executive council of the VPMC will include
representatives of each relevant village level organization (e.g. women's organization, youth
organization, etc.), medicinal plant collectors and traders, medicinal practitioners, and other
members selected through village consensus. Typically, the executive council of the VPMC will
include 10-12 members, the appropriate state functionaries (e.g. beat forest officer and local
agriculture worker), and project staff. The social mobilizers and PMU sociologist will play a key
role in setting up the VPMC.
6.    The project will set up a parent organization for each MPCA comprised of two
representatives from each VPMC, representatives from relevant state organizations and NGOs,
and the MPCA project officer. The parent organization, called the Conservation Area
Management Committee (CAMC), would serve as the MPCA management office and would
oversee the management and implementation of all project activities in the conservation area.
7.    An important task in the early stages of the project will be the construction of a
detailed base map for each of the MPCAs. The base map should show villages, roads, rivers,
topographic features, existing land-use zonation (e.g. boundaries of forest reserves, sanctuaries,
buffer zones, etc.) and vegetation cover with as much precision as possible. All information
should be spatially referenced and controlled using standard cartographic techniques. If
possible, the cartographic information from each MPCA should be compiled and stored as
separate layers as part of a Geographic Information System (GIS). The project will supply funds
for the execution of this mapping work which will be performed by specialists in the Department
of Forestry. Once a preliminary version of the base map is available, it will be circulated to each
of the villages in the MPCA to field check the mapping units and to incorporate the observations
and corrections of each community. The review and revision of the base map should be
completed by the middle of the first year of the project.
B.    Baseline Data Collection
8.    Soon after the VPMCs have been established, two separate, yet interrelated, surveys will
be conducted. A socio-economic survey of local households will document income distribution
within the community and will assess the importance of medicinal plants in the overall health
care and economic condition of the village. Basic demographic data on the structure and
dyngmics of the community will also be collected. These studies will be designed by an expert
sociologist from the PMU in collaboration with the social mobilizers and the local PMU
sociologist working at the MPCA level. A training workshop will be conducted to present and
field test the survey methodology before initiating field activities to insure that comparable data
are collected from all of the MPCAs. Follow-up surveys will be conducted each year for the
duration of the project to monitor any changes in the social and economic conditions of the
villages that might occur as a result of project activities.
9.    Preliminary information on the medicinal plants used in each village will be collected by
an ethnobotanical survey. The basic objective of this survey is to provide an annotated list of
medicinal plants ranked in order of local importance and frequency of use; general information
on associated non-timber forest products (NTFPs) of importance will also be collected at this
time. Although detailed information on the plant use and the preparation of medicinal
compounds will =  be collected in these preliminary surveys, all data collection procedures will
closely adhere to the guidelines for Intellectual Property Rights established by the Ministry of
Indigenous Medicine. The surveys will be designed by an ethnobotanical expert working



26
ANNEX 2
Page 3
together with an ayurvedic specialist at the PMU level. The implementation of these surveys
will be carried out in each village by a specialized team including a botanist, an ayurvedic
specialist, a para-forester2, and local student assistants. The technical and support personnel for
the teams (i.e. the botanist and the student assistants) will be contracted locally by the project
and trained by the ethnobotanist in the appropriate survey methods. The results from these
surveys will undoubtedly suggest topics and/or species that merit further investigation (e.g.
collection and preparation procedures, use of different species for similar ailments,
pharmacology of selected taxa, comparative studies between villages, etc.). These topics will be
addressed in subsequent ethnobotanical research carried out each year in the MPCA by
representatives of the Bandranaike Memorial Ayurvedic Research Institute (BMARI) and the
Department of Ayurveda working closely with local ayurvedic practitioners. The collaboration
of an ethnobotanical expert will be solicited to assist with the design and analytical phases of this
research. The ultimate goal of the work is to salvage and preserve critical indigenous knowledge
about medicinal plants before it is lost.
10.    A basic objective of the in-situ conservation component is to assess the degree to which
local communities impact natural populations of medicinal plants in the associated core
conservation zones (e.g. forest reserves) of each MPCA. Plant populations that are intensively
exploited for medicine will clearly be more severely impacted than those that are exploited only
on an infrequent or casual basis. Given this consideration, data collection will be prioritized for
those plant species that are of greatest importance to the community from a medical, economic,
and cultural standpoint. Using the results from the socio-economic and ethnobotanical surveys
as a guide, a selection of sample species will be conducted. This exercise will produce a short
list of priority medicinal plants (approximately 15 - 20 taxa) in each village. The selection
process should involve full participation of the village3 with particular attention afforded to the
input of local ayurvedic practitioners and commercial collectors of medicinal plants. The results
from each village will then be compiled to create a master list of priority species for the entire
MPCA.
11.    Given a listing of the medicinal plant species of greatest local importance, the next
critical step is to quantify the actual distribution and abundance of each of these species within
the forest. These data, which lay the foundation for a viable strategy of conservation and
sustainable use, will be collected in a quantitative resource inventory. The MPCA base map
will be used to layout a systematic, stratified sample of the existing forest area. Data will be
collected along parallel, 1 Om-wide transects of variable length depending on the configuration of
the forest. The transects will be spaced at intervals of 200m to provide an overall sample
intensity of 5%. Care should be taken to orient the transects at right angles to the topography to
maximize the amount of environmental variability encountered. Two sets of data will be
collected along the transect. First, the number of individuals of each of the priority species will
be carefully counted and recorded, and measurements of plant size will recorded where
appropriate (e.g. diameter measurements will be recorded for tree species; height measurements
2 A para-forester is a local villager who is knowledgeable about medicinal plants and who has been trained
in the methodologies of ethnobotanical survey, forest inventory, and the collection and processing of
herbarium specimens. This village specialist will play an important role in all aspects of the in-situ
conservation components of the project. He will receive a stipend from the project for his training
and participation in project activities.
The social mobilizers will facilitate and moderate this participation.



27
ANNEX 2
Page 4
will be recorded for poles, shrubs, and larger herbaceous plants). The data will be tallied at 20m
intervals along the transect to provide discrete, 10 X 20m sample units. Second, a running list of
all the medicinal plants encountered along the transect will be recorded to construct a complete
list of the medicinal plant resources found within the core conservation zone. Replicate
herbarium specimens of each species will be collected, identified, and deposited in herbaria at
the University of Peradeniya and the BMARI.
12.   The basic inventory procedure in each MPCA will be designed by an inventory specialist
contracted by the project working in collaboration with representatives from the Department of
Forestry and/or Department of Wildlife. Training sessions will be held at both the MPCA level
and the village level to insure that all participants are clear on the mechanics of the inventory
methodology. Inventory crews will be composed of para-foresters, ayurvedic specialists, village
data collectors, and student field assistants that have been contracted by the project from local
institutions or universities. Representatives from the Department of Forestry (or from the
Department of Wildlife in the case of Ritigala) and a contract botanist will operate at the MPCA
level and circulate among village crews during the inventory operations. The inventory
specialist contracted by the project will return after all field activities are completed to assist in
the compilation and analysis of the inventory data. The results from this work will provide the
most detailed ecological accounting of medicinal plants ever conducted in Sri Lanka. A full set
of the inventory data will be deposited with the Department of Forestry for their use in
developing comprehensive management plans for the forest reserves associated with the MPCAs.
C. Development of Village Action Plan
13.    The forest inventory will document the current status of the medicinal plant resource
base in each MPCA, and it will be an invaluable tool in assisting the MPCA villages to make
informed decisions about future actions that need to be taken to conserve these resources.
Quantitative evidence of dwindling stocks in the forest provides a strong incentive for opening a
dialogue about forest conservation. Under the direction of the social mobilizers, village-level
planning workshops will be held to present and discuss the results from the inventory and to
assess local needs. During this workshop, a preliminary action plan for the management and
sustainable use of medicinal plants at the VPMC level will be formulated. These plans should
provide broad operational guidelines for zoning local habitats and for defining the types of
actiVities that could be implemented in each habitat, and should include an assessment of the
medicinal plant species that are in greatest danger of over-exploitation in the area. The
preliminary village action plan should also list the perceived informational needs of the
community as related to medicinal plant conservation (e.g. technical assistance on the
propagation, care, and processing of certain species, periodic market updates, alternative income
generation opportunities, etc.). The planning workshop will be assisted by a conservation
planner (PMU level) contracted by the project working in collaboration with various members of
the VPMC.
14.    An important component of the preliminary village action plan will be prescribed
extension activities and the cultivation of medicinal plants. The selection of species for
propagation will depend on a number of factors including level of endangerment, subsistence
4The village para-forester should play a key role in this phase of the workshop. Other members of the
inventory crews should also be encouraged to share their observations.



28
ANNEX 2
Page 5
use, and market demand. The emphasis would be on species found to occur in low densities in
the forest. The cultivation of species in home gardens, agroforestry fields, buffer zones5, and
degraded areas will help maintain the genetic stocks of valuable medicinal species and should
eventually relieve the pressure on wild populations within the forest. Local cultivation, on both
small and large scale, can also enhance the supply of raw materials for subsistence use and
marketing, and, in conjunction with local processing, can form the basis of small enterprises with
income generating capacity for local communities. Technical support and extension for this
activity will be provided by the local agricultural officer and an extension horticulturist
contracted by the project. The information center established in each MPCA (discussed below)
will be the primary source of information on the identification of local species, propagation,
harvest, processing, and value-added technologies. Planting stock for the cultivation initiative
will be produced by the nursery facility established in each MPCA (discussed below);
supplemental material will be produced, as necessary, by the villages themselves in simple
nurseries.
15.    To further respond to the technical needs of the villages in the MPCA, adaptive on-
farm research will also be conducted by the project. This work will be designed and carried out
by an extension horticulturist/agronomist contracted by the project working in collaboration with
the VPMC and selected villagers. The species and cultivation practices examined in these
studies will be selected based on discussions with villagers. Village-level research activity will
continue for the duration of the project, with new species and new cultivation techniques being
examined each year. The results from this research will go directly to the information center for
dissemination to all of the villages in MPCA. To provide a more comprehensive picture of
farming activity at the village level, a local farming system expert will be contract by the project
to conduct a detailed village assessment. The objective of this research is to assess how the
cultivation of medicinal plants fits into the overall agricultural scheme of the village and to make
recommendations on the intensification and improvement of local agricultural practice.
Conserving medicinal plants and then cutting down the forest to grow food are clearly
conflicting concepts that need to be resolved at the village level.
16.    The promotion of financial stability for ayurvedic practitioners and medicinal plant
collectors will be addressed in the project by investigating different alternative income
generating strategies that could be developed at the village level. Several promising
alternatives will be assessed including value-added activities, improved marketing and better
access to price information, eco-tourism, and post-harvest handling and processing. For
example, by drying a fruit crop in the village rather than in a central factory, or by grinding it
rather than selling it whole, transport costs are reduced and additional income could be obtained
by the villagers. These studies will be carried out by an inter-disciplinary team of specialists
(e.g. marketing specialist, value-added expert, quality control expert, etc.) contracted locally by
the project.
17.    Along these same lines, a village development fund will be established to provide
financial assistance to selected communities for establishing medicinal plant gardens, setting up
It is hoped that the Forest Department will complete the delineation and demarcation of Traditional Use
Zones within the forest reserves of each MPCA during the early phases of the project. Once this is
accomplished, the enrichment planting of medicinal plants in these areas can also be initiated. The
Forestry Department will be responsible for implementing approved enrichment planting in
designated forest area.



29
ANNEX 2
Page 6
small-scale, demonstrative processing facilities, and for encouraging the development of local
enterprises. The primary objective of the fund is to facilitate the creation of alternative income
opportunities for those communities who are currently dependent on MPCA resources for their
livelihood and to promote viable substitutes to currently destructive activities. The village
development program will be financed by channeling funds from existing government projects
operating in the vicinity of the MPCAs. The Project Officer will work with other government
agencies to direct such resources to the project areas.
18.    The implementation of the preliminary village action plan will be reviewed annually
and revised as necessary to best fulfill project objectives and the needs of the community.
Although the appraisal will be coordinated by the social mobilizerand will be assisted by the
conservation planner from the PMU, the actual management decisions will be made by the
villagers at an annual meeting convened expressly for this purpose. In this manner, the
preliminary village action plan will be continually refined during the project as communities
become increasingly involved in the cultivation, conservation, and sustainable use of medicinal
plants in the MPCAs.
D. Sustainability Studies
19.    The project will undertake quantitative growth and yield studies of the priority
medicinal plant species selected in each MPCA. Representative individuals of each species will
be located in the forest, plotted on the base map, permanently labeled, and the particular resource
of interest harvested (e.g. leaves, fruit, bark, etc.), weighed, and recorded. Although exact
6
sampling procedures will vary according to the life form of the species , the basic objective is to-
derive an estimate of the quantity of harvestable resource available from each individual. To
simulate the actual harvest of the resource, local collectors should be employed in this fieldwork
Replicate individuals or plots should be sampled for each species, with at least five trees per
diameter class being sampled for each tree species. The sample plants are left for a period of one
year and then re-harvested. The amount of harvestable resource obtained during this sampling
period represents the annual yield of each species. Multiplying this result by the number of
individuals per hectare encountered in the resource inventory provides an estimate of the annual
harvest volume per hectare of each species. Expanding this product by the total area of forest
yields the total volume of medicine by species in the entire MPCA. From a management
standpoint, this is an extremely important piece of data. The project will contract an inventory
specialist to assist in the design of the growth and yield studies in each MPCA and to conduct
initial training workshops. Annual data collection activities will be conducted by field crews
composed of a para-forester, a botanist, a representative of the Forestry Department and student
field assistants. These are the same crews that were contracted by the project to assist with the
collection of inventory data.
20.    The next step in the sustainability studies is to assess the existing harvest level of each
species at the village-level. This type of research is fraught with methodological problems. For
the purpose of the project, recording qualitative estimates of the harvestable volumes of different
species collected over the course of a year is sufficient. These data will be recorded by the para-
forester living in each village with assistant from the social mobilizer, as necessary. . Whenever a
6 The harvest of a herbaceous plant will necessarily be different from that of a shrub which will also be
different from that employed for a large tree.



30
ANNEX 2
Page 7
new bundle of plant material is brought into the villages, the para-forester will record the date,
the species, and the approximate volume.. Over time, it may be possible to enlist the help of
other villages in the monitoring process, or, under ideal conditions, to have the collectors
themselves keep a cumulative record of their harvest activity throughout the year.
21.   By comparing the current yield estimates with data on community collection rates,
sustainability assessments can be generated each year. These assessments will provide a good
indication of the impact that local communities are having on the forest and will be of great
value in deciding which species merit increased cultivation as part of the village action plan.
The data on annual harvest levels are also an important indicator for testing a key hypothesis of
the project, i.e. that increasing the supply of medicinal plant through cultivation will decrease the
demand on wild stocks and enhance conservation. If village harvest levels decrease notably
throughout the life of the project, there is a good chance that this hypothesis is valid in the
context of the MPCAs.
E. Conservation Strategy for Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas
22.   The individual community action plans will be compiled and expanded to develop an
overall conservation strategy for each MPCA. Using the quantitative information on medicinal
plants obtained from the resource inventory, the qualitative information on other forest resources
obtained in the ethnobotanical surveys, and the results from the socio-economic studies, a
preliminary conservation plan will be designed for each area. The plan will contain
recommendations for the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources and for increasing
village participation in the conservation process. Given the existing data and the objectives of
the project, the primary focus of this document will be on medicinal plants. The conservation
strategies for the MPCAs will be developed by the conservation planner from the PMU working
in collaboration with the Department of Forestry. As with the village action plans, the MPCA
conservation strategies will be reviewed and revised annually to reflect the input of new data
from the sustainability studies and the on-farm research. The conservation strategies will be
submitted to the Department of Forestry to be included as part of their overall management
planning for each forest reserve.
F. Extension and Education in the Medicinal Plant Conservation Area
23.   An Ayurveda dispensary will be established in a selected community of each MPCA.
Each will contain an ayurvedic physician and an assistant that will be supported by the project.
The dispensary will also house a simple production and processing facility equipped by the
project for processing plant material and preparing herbal medicines. An information center,
for the building of public awareness in traditional knowledge, medicinal plant identification,
cultivation, and use, and market information will be established as part of the dispensary.
Extension materials produced by on-farm research and the information component (see below)
of the project will be disseminated through the information center. The government will be
responsible for the estimated recurrent costs of maintaining the dispensaries and information
centers in each MPCA..
24.   The dispensary and information centers will serve as sites where apprenticeship
training of future traditional healers will take place, becoming in effect the classrooms for



31
ANNEX 2
Page 8
communication of the traditional knowledge from the older generation of healers to the younger.
The project will encourage the continuation -of the "guru-kula" system of apprenticeship, and
include compensation for healers who are teaching students. Support for five students a year in
each MPCA will also be offered by the project. The selection of students will be coordinated by
the CAMC.
25.   To provide a continual source of high-quality planting materials for the villages in the
MPCA, a medicinal plant nursery will be established as part of the information center and
dispensary facility. The nursery will be designed and managed by an agronomist from the PMU
working with a local support staff that have received training in nursery operation and
maintenance. The selection of plant species to be propagated will be based on the planting needs
of local villages, and nursery stock will be periodically changed to reflect the annual adjustments
in the village action plans. The project will also support the establishment of a medicinal plant
garden at each information center as a way of increasing awareness about different plant species
and the ways that they can be incorporated into different management systems7. All plants will
be labeled with information about local name, scientific name, habitat, as well as brief use
infornation.
Component II: Expansion of Ex-situ Cultivation and Conservation: (S 0.48 million)
A. Establish Two New Nurseries
26.   The project will support the development of new nurseries in the two biogeographic
zones where no nurseries currently exist. One of the nurseries will be established at Miriswatte
in the Western Province, the other near Galle in the Southern Province. The establish of these
nurseries will involve several discrete steps. Within the two regions selected, the Department of
Ayurveda will first identify, acquire and demarcate the sites for nursery development. The
administrative and legal aspects of this land transfer must be completed early during the first
year of the project. Given the availability of suitable land, the next task is to design the
nursery. This activity will be directed by the Department of Ayurveda in collaboration with the
PMU agronomist that has been contracted. Based on the design specifications, land
preparation will start and the necessary infrastructure developments such as irrigation
systems, fencing, and plant shelters will be implemented. These activities will be funded by the
project. Once the nursery is established, a comprehensive program of germplasm collection
and planting will be initiated. The Department of Ayurveda will organize annual collecting
expeditions and all of the new germplasm will be planted, multiplied, and made available for
distribution to interested parties.
B. Improve Existing Nurseries
27.    The Department of Ayurveda currently has three nurseries that produce medicinal
planting material at Bathgoda, Girandurukotte and Pattipola. The project will provide support to
expand the production of planting stocks by these nurseries and to improve existing facilities so
7 Different sections of the medicinal plant garden will display different planting schemes including small,
single plantings of herbaceous plants, diverse mixtures of species for home gardens, and multi-storied
agroforestry systems including herbs, shrubs, and trees.



32
ANNEX 2
Page 9
that they become repositories of the mother plants from different provenances and other selected
stock of value. Infrastructure developments (e.g. improvements to water systems, drainage,
plant shelters, etc.) and the annual collection of germplasm and planting will be financed using
project funds. The nursery improvements will be coordinated and implemented by the
Department of Ayurveda. It should be noted that the objective of the nursery enhancement
component of the project is not to fulfill the planting needs of the entire country, but to support
the maintenance of important germplasm and planting materials which can supply other private
and public sector nurseries.
C. Research on Propagation
28.   Lack of technologies for the mass propagation is one of the most serious constraints to
widespread cultivation of medicinal plants in Sri Lanka. To meet this need, the project will
support research to develop simple techniques for propagating selected important taxa of
medicinal plants. The selection of species and research design will be coordinated by a senior
agronomist contracted by project. The selection of species for study will be based on several
criteria: degree of endangerment in the wild, actual or potential market value, and availability of
existing information. Sequential sets of experiments will be conducted for the duration of the
project. A first group of species will be selected, the experimental design implemented, and the
data collected until all treatments have been assessed. A new set of species will then be selected
and a new series of studies will start. At the completion of each experimental phase, the analysis
and preparation of results will be undertaken and annual reports of the research results will be
provided to the project for distribution. The agronomists responsible for conducting the
propagation research (as well as the home garden and plantation studies described below) will be
contracted locally by the project.
D. Home Garden and Plantation Research
29.   The project will also support research focused on field planting techniques. The research
will consist of a series of carefully designed experiments in home gardens and farmer's fields to
test various parameters related to the cultivation of medicinal plants as an important component
of a local farming system. Research would be geared toward intercropping medicinal plants in
plantation of estate crops such as rubber and coconut. The results of this adaptive research
coupled with, detailed economic analyses of recommended management packages will form the
basis for providing these technologies to the end user.
30.   As with the propagation studies, the home garden research will follow a strict protocol.
The selection of study species will be based on degree of endangerment, local demand, and
market value. The research design, which will vary according to the farming system being
analyzed, will be coordinated by a senior agronomist contracted by the project. The selection of
study sites will also vary with the species and farming system being studied. To enhance the
usefulness of the results, some-of the research will be carried out in the home gardens and
agroforestry fields of the MPCA. The home garden research will be initiated early during the



33
ANNEX 2
Page 10
8
second year of the project, and data collection will continue for at least three more years
Annual reports of research results will be submitted to the project for distribution.
E. Dissemination of Research Results
31.   The project will support the dissemination of the results from the propagation and home
garden research to farmers and the general public through existing extension channels (e.g.
agriculture and forestry networks). The research findings will be grouped by species and
prioritized based on the current demand/need for information. A series of technical bulletins will
be prepared each year for the medicinal plant species afforded the highest priority. The project
will prepare the technical bulletins in-house, but may contract a research publicist to assist in the
preparation and final publication of these materials.
Component 3- Information and Institutional Support: (S 2.52 million)
A. Promotion of Appropriate Legal and Policy Environment Through Studies and
Recommendations for Regulations
32.   The legislative framework in Sri Lanka does not specifically address the status of
medicinal plants and the traditional knowledge related to them. To address this issue, the
Government of Sri Lanka has initiated a participatory process to define "strategies to regulate
access to indigenous knowledge and other information resulting from the implementation of the
medicinal plants projects". This process has resulted in agreement on a two-step strategy.
33.   The first step will be to develop guidelines for ensuring the confidentiality of
information for incorporation in employment contracts for staff, consultants and institutions
involved in data collection under the project. These guidelines will be developed by the
Department of Ayurveda in close consultation with the committee established for this purpose,
before the award of employment contracts under the project. The Department of Ayurveda will
implement these guidelines and supervise their fulfillment by all actors involved in the collection
of data under the project.
34.    This will be followed by the preparation of guidelines for collection, processing, storing
and access to information under the project. These guidelines will include the following
considerations: (1) procedures for approving requests for data collection, (2) the conditions
against unauthorized disclosure of the information gathered, (3) the recording of the source of
information so as to ensure the respect of any right related to such data, (4) procedures for
obtaining the permission of source person and/or community for collection of data, (5) specific
procedures for granting access to the data, (6) approval procedures for granting data access to
third parties; (7) approval procedures for request for information from foreign entities and/or
persons and conditions for repatriation of any benefits arising from data use to Sri Lanka and/or
the source of the data by foreigners, (8) conditions for mandatory joint partnership with local
research institutions for foreign entities requesting access to the data or a permnit to collect data.
8Given the inherent value of this research, it is hoped that data collection will continue beyond the life of
the project.



34
ANNEX 2
Page I 1
35.   The project will finance the preparation of these guidelines by providing local technical
assistance and workshop support to obtain consent of representatives of all stakeholders involved
in medicinal plant conservation and sustainable use. These guidelines will be prepared and
enacted by the end of the first year of project activities. The Department of Ayurveda will
appoint a "Committee" to review all applications for access to medicinal plant data and to advise
on all issues dealing with access to the medicinal plant data. It is also proposed that all such
procedures including the application and approval of requests will be made public.
36.   The second step will be to undertake a study related to the development of
comprehensive legislation dealing with the protection of medicinal plants and the traditional
knowledge related to them, including intellectual property rights (IPRs). This long-term
commitment aims at establishing an adequate legal regime to safeguard the traditional
knowledge and ensure that benefits from the use of this knowledge will accrue to the
stakeholders involved in the conservation and sustainable use of the medicinal plant resources
and the traditional knowledge related to them. The current "Advisory Committee" comprised of
representatives of ministries and various NGOs will review all IPR issues and will draft reports
and advisory papers to the Government for consideration. In order to ensure the participation of
all stakeholders involved, the project will assist in the funding of the study (national technical
assistance support) and workshops to define this long-term policy and related legislation. In
addition, the project would provide support for consultation with the World Intellectual Property
Rights Organization and workshops on this important theme. The output of this exercise will be
recommendations to the MIM for new and improved legislation for the protection of medicinal
plant genetic resources and their products and traditional knowledge on medicinal plants.
B. Establishment of information network on medicinal plants
37.   A large volume of information on medicinal plants based on floristic and
phytosociological studies is available in the country. This informnation is scattered in floras,
books on medicinal plants, the National Herbarium, relevant post-graduate theses, data bases in
the National Conservation Review, and Wetland Project site reports. These data sources will be
searched to pull together information on medicinal plant species as they occur in their natural
habitats, to improve the level of information collected for this section to supplement the
information available at the BMARI, of the Department of Ayurveda. Although a database
exists at the Department of Ayurveda, it is still rudimentary
38.   The project will also support the establishment of an information management system at
the Department of Ayurveda in order to organize existing data and those generated through this
project into a data base with the wide range of information necessary for medicinal plant
conservation, including botanical and local names, distribution and ecology, chemical
characteristics, and market information. The data base will be established at BMARI, and will
consist of data sets compiled by different institutions and agencies. These datasets have been set
up independently within each program (NCR, Wetland Project, National Herbarium, etc.) under
the management of the relevant institution to serve internal needs. Information contained within
the data base will be accessible on the basis of procedures to be drawn up by the Department of
Ayurveda. As part of the information development program, the Department of Ayurveda will
investigate ways in which access to information contained within the system can be controlled
and managed to ensure that benefits resulting from any commercial use are equitably shared with
practitioner's association, communities, BMARI and other groups which have contributed
information. The data processing and information services center at BMARI will facilitate the



35
ANNEX 2
Page 12
establishment of databases at relevant institutions by providing technical support, training and
ensuring compatibility between different databases.
C. Training and Mass Awareness on Medicinal Plant Conservation
39.   In addition to the specific training needs identified for the implementation of the in-situ
conservation and ex-situ cultivation and conservation components of the project, training in
specialized disciplines will be supported under the project. The Project will finance a very
limited number of specialized post-graduate level training positions (master's degrees) in
ethnobotany, sustainable management, etc. in suitable institutions outside the country. The
project will also support the placement of local staff in short-term specialized technical training
attachments in suitable institutions outside the country (e.g. Kew Gardens, United Kingdom;
Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants in Lucknow; Darwin Botanical Gardens,
Northern Territories, Australia; etc.). In addition, participation at international meetings and
study tours, and extensive local training will be financed under the project. This training will be
available to staff of the Departments of Ayurveda and Forestry, universities and research
institutions, local communities and other participating institutions. The local training component
will be managed by the Department of Ayurveda, who will contract individuals and institutions
to conduct the local training, where necessary. The Technical Assistance (Operational Support)
consultants will assist the Department of Ayurveda in identifying institutions and in the
placement of participant trainees in international courses. A training plan defining the nature of
training, number of people to be trained, training institutions, and training schedule will be
prepared by the Department of Ayurveda, following a training needs assessment, prior to the
commencement of the project.
40.    Although enviromnental matters have steadily increased in importance as part of the
formal education system, medicinal plants do not feature prominently in environmental
education at present. However, by reaching the more then 10,000 schools in the country,
perceptions of and activities relating to medicinal plants can be significantly affected. Medicinal
plant curricula developed as part of this project will be designed to supplement traditional
subject areas such as agriculture, botany, biology, social studies, etc., and will be built into the
teacher training programs. Teacher training would be contracted to a national level NGO, and
would include the development of teaching material, discussions and review of.materials by
curriculum developers for integration into existing syllabi, teacher orientation through seminars
and workshops, publication of material, and evaluation of the program. The project will also
provide technical assistance support for the review and improvement of the existing curricula of
the Institute of Indigenous Medicine.
41.    The project would also support the development of social publicity programs and
materials for public television and radio. The preparation of these materials will be contracted by
the Department of Ayurveda to a qualified communication specialist or institution.
42.    There is a tremendous need for educational materials for use in the training and
upgrading of the skills of Ayurvedic and other physicians, and this project will endeavor to
produce such materials through the activities of the BMARI. In addition, a manual covering the
208 most widely used species of medicinal plants will be prepared, with sections on the botany,
traditional uses, medical uses, clinical studies, biological activity and chemical composition,
supplemented with black and white line drawings of the plants. It is expected that the publication
will be in multiple language versions, in order to have as wide an impact as possible, including at



36
ANNEX 2
Page 13
the international level, as it would also be useful to the worldwide community of Ayurvedic and
other physicians whose practice involves the use of herbal materials.
43.   The traditional knowledge found in the hundreds of old manuscripts written on palm
leaves by practitioners of Ayurveda have not been interpreted, thus a valuable source of
information remains untapped. Some of the palm leaf manuscripts at BMARI are up to 700 years
old, containing a plethora of ancient wisdom on plant use for diseases of humans and domestic
animals. To date some 100 of these manuscripts have been transcribed and published by
BMARI, and the project will endeavor to transcribe and interpret, using specialists contracted for
this phase of the work, a manageable number (about 50) of the 500 old manuscripts housed:
within the BMARI, and will promote the study of these and other old manuscripts. An expert
group on ethno-medicinal studies will be commissioned by the Department of Ayurveda to
oversee the project. Digitization of the original materials will be undertaken, in order to
safeguard the information and make it more widely available without risking the fragile
manuscripts themselves.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Achievements
44.   In addition to the regular progress monitoring which will be undertaken by the
Department of Ayurveda, the project would support impact monitoring to assess the ecological
and socioeconomic impacts of the project so as to determine whether there is agreement with
those anticipated. Impact monitoring would also assess the effectiveness of project institutions
and processes in meeting project objectives. Impact monitoring would be contracted by the
Department of Ayurveda to a multi-disciplinary team from an independent research institution or
university. The monitoring of project impact would be based on a conceptual framework to be
developed at the beginning of the project. The framework would embrace medicinal plant values
in the MPCAs, anticipated changes, sampling methods, analytical methods, mechanisms for
feedback and project adjustment, and roles and responsibilities for monitoring. Monitoring
would be done at periodic intervals through a consistent set of measures or indicators that reflect
values for which the MPCAs are being managed, the control and mitigation of threats to the
conservation areas, and the effectiveness of institutions and processes. This is further discussed
in the Project Implementation Plan.
E. Support to Project Management, Project Coordination and Advisory Functions
45.   The implementation of the project will require very specific arrangements for project
management, coordination and advisory support. These arrangements would facilitate the
smooth operation of the project and would be established as a temporary measure for the life of
the project. These are discussed below:
46.   Project Management: The Ministry in charge of the subject of indigenous medicine
(Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine - MIM) will be responsible for project execution,
and will work in close collaboration with the relevant government agencies, provincial councils,
NGOs and communities. A project management unit (PMU) will be established within the MIM
for management of the project. The PMU will be headed by a Project Director, reporting to the
Secretary, MIM. The PMU will implement the project through the line agencies, provincial
institutions, and local community institutions, as appropriate.
47.   In addition to the Project Director, the PMU would include core staff comprising a



37
ANNEX 2
Page 14
Program Officer, Administrative Assistant, Accountant and Support Staff (typist, driver, etc.).
The PMU would be located at Colombo.
48.   The implementation of project activities will be the responsibility of the respective
cooperating agencies, under the overall coordination of the PMU. Since the project will involve a
substantial involvement of the provincial councils in the implementation of activities in the
MPCAs, the long-term commitment of the respective provincial administration will be ensured
by MIM entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the relevant Provincial
Councils (represented by the Chief Secretary) detailing the cooperation and collaboration
required. Memoranda of Understanding will also be negotiated with other key participating
agencies like the Department of Forestry and Wildlife Conservation.
49.   The project will support the staffing and functioning of the PMU to provide logistical,
administrative and financial support services for various activities to be undertaken by the
participating government agencies, NGOs, community organizations, and individuals.
50.   Project Coordination: Since there is a diverse set of stakeholders involved with the
project, coordination arrangements are needed at the national, provincial and local levels. At the
MPCA level, the Medicinal Plant Conservation Area Management Committee (CAMC) will
guide and oversee the implementation of activities. Provincial Project Management Committees
(PPMCs) will be established at each of the provinces where the MPCAs are located. These
committees will be chaired by the Chief Secretaries of the respective participating provinces and
will include representatives from the state and provincial agencies and NGOs who are directly
participating in the conservation area programs. These committees will oversee the
implementation of project activities, including monitoring and evaluation, approve plans of
actions and work programs and other related matters. The Project Officer of the relevant MPCA
will serve as the convener of this committee.
51.   At the national level, the existing national project steering committee on medicinal
plants (NPSC) with some additional members, will provide overall policy and strategic guidance
for project implementation and to ensure that project activities are consistent with the project
objectives. It will also approve annual work plans and budgets. This Committee is chaired by the
Secretary, Ministry in charge of the subject of indigenous medicine. The Project Director will
serve as the convener of the NPSC.
52.   Project Advisory Group: This technical group of international and local scientists will
interact regularly (during the first, third and fifth years of the project) at international workshops
to be supported under the project to share experiences on similar types of projects. This group
will review the technical aspects of the project.



38
ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US $: million)
Project Component                                                Local          Foreign        Total
-S---------------------   $ million-
1. Expansion of in situ conservation of medicinal plants          1.59            0.97          2.56
2. Ex situ conservation and cultivation within the project context  0.24          0.18          0.43.
3. information and institutional activities within the project context  0.93      0.67          1.60
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                         0.11            0.06         . 0.17
Price Contingencies                                            0.20             0.11          0.31
Total Project Cost                                                3.07            2.00          5.07



-      39
ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
1.    The objective of the GEF alternative is to secure the active conservation of globally and
nationally significant medicinal plants, their habitats, species and genomes. The proposed
project aims at furthering Sri Lanka's overall strategy for natural resource conservation by
advancing the implementation of international cooperation to conserve biodiversity. Specific
outputs of the proposed project include: (i) A viable and participatory management system for
medicinal plants operating in prime natural habitats and peripheral areas; (ii) Comprehensive
identification of culturable medicinal plant species and establishment of best practices for their
propagation and cultivation; (iii) A sustainable system for the collection and preservation of
information on medicinal plants, including ethnobotanical information.
The Country Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    Sri Lanka is actively pursuing a strategy of rapid economic development, in which the
private sector will have a substantial role, through the expansion of its infrastructure and the
growth of industry. The transformation of subsistence agriculture is a complementary objective
to the country's development strategy, focusing on the improvement of land productivity, crop
diversification and the realization of export-oriented comparative advantage. The Govermnent
are aware that the pursuit of rapid, decentralized, economic growth might occasion the
degradation of natural resources, which would ultimately disturb the growth process itself, and
have acknowledged the need to incorporate sufficiently aspects of environmental sustainability
into the execution of its development strategy. At the same time the Government wish to
maintain a balanced approach towards environmental protection that integrates environmental
concerns into the development process without hampering development itself. Formally, one
way to strike this balanced approach is to discuss openly developmental and environmental
agendas in the vetting of development projects at various levels in Government. MFE have
made considerable progress in institutionalizing this dialogue within Government.
3.    The operational effectiveness of such a dialogue, however, will depend upon in-country
capacity for environmental analysis and management. The Government has undertaken several
measures over the past few years to strengthen the institutional capacity of the public sector to
assess the implications of sustainable environmental management, but further institutional
strengthening will represent a considerable additional burden on the present allocation of
resources available to the Government. Further allocation of resources to institutional
strengthening would come chiefly at the expense of other social and developmental priorities.
The current compromise is to accept that, in view of the increasing pressures on land and the
lack of institutional capacity for environmental management, some degradation will be inevitable
and that existing institutional capacity should be used to the greatest extent to limit the breadth
and degree of irreversibility of the damage.



40
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Baseline
4.    At present, several government agencies implement activities that can be regarded as
contributing to the conservation of medicinal plants or to their sustainable use. They are the
Department of Ayurveda, the Forest Department, and the Department of Wildlife Conservation
(MALF). In the absence of GEF facilities, Sri Lanka would be expected to continue some
allocation of capital expenditures for medicinal plant conservation through these agencies, but
the commitment of resources would continue to be low, as in the example of the MFE, in view
of more pressing domestic environmental priorities of flood control, forest protection, solid
waste management, development of drinking water and sanitation. Even among these high
priority areas, the actual utilization of funds for capital and recurrent expenditures has been
somewhat erratic over the last five years. The pattern of the utilization of funds over the last six
years suggests that the current trend for actual expenditures by the MFE is to maintain present
spending levels roughly adjusted for inflation. While resources to the division are not expanding
in real terms, it is doubtful, in view of currently underfunded commitments, that there would be
significant changes in the allocation of funds specifically for the benefit of medicinal plants.
5.    Department of Ayurveda. Current development plans for the department specify the
establishment of an Ayurvedic complex at Karagoda in Matara district. These plans include the
establishment of an Ayurvedic hospital, a herbarium, a drug factor, a training unit and a research
unit with a standardization and quality control central laboratory, a botanical research unit and a
slinical research unit. By extending the availability of Ayurvedic medicine these activities
would also aim to popularize an awareness of their value to Sri Lankan society, and so
strengthen a national consensus to give the conservation of medicinal plants a more prominent
status among the country's environmental priorities. Although extending an appreciation of
Ayurvedic practices and developing the knowledge base of the medical system's use of plants
have a role to play in securing a sustained effort at conserving medicinal plants, these activities
physically do not entail the conservation of plant habitats or the determination, in the interests of
operations for the management of habitats, of their sustainable use. The development plan for
MCPCLGIM has earmarked a total of Rs 154 million ((US$ 2.83 million) in current terms,
beginning in 1997 through to the end of 2000, for the Karagoda complex. Incidentally, the
department also has plans to establish 63 Ayurvedic hospitals in 19 administrative districts at a
cost of Rs 614.8 million ($ 11.32 million) over the period of 1996 to 2000.
6.    Forest Department. The Forest Department's main activities involve the development
and management of plantation forests as well as the conservation and management of natural
forests. Naturally in many instances protected forests incorporate medicinal plant habitats. In
these sites, the policing operations of forest management, although perhaps not primarily aimed
at the production of non-timber forest products, would also in principle benefit the integrity of
at-risk plant populations. The Forest Department, moreover, can be expected in the future to
undertake as part of its management operations in such areas some cultivation, conservation and
extension specifically directed toward medicinal plants. In the plantation forests as well, the
Forest Department can be expected to be more active in ex situ cultivation of plants. Based on
average Forest Department investments in period of 1995-1997, it is possible to identify that one
percent of the current department's budget, or about Rs. 1.4 million ($ 25,783) per year in 1996
terms, would be utilized under the categories of the conservation and management of forests, and
forest research, education and extension services primarily for the conservation management of
medicinal plants.



41
ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.    Department of Wildlife Conservation. The mandate of the Department of Wildlife
Conservation extends to the protection of flora and to carrying out research to ascertain rare plant
populations. The department also is charged with providing national park services for tourism.
In as much as park areas also encompass medicinal plant habitats, the wildlife department
particularly can be expected to allocate resources that enhance the potential contribution of
medicinal plants to the tourism value of some park areas. The current level of expenditure by
the department on conservation services is estimated at about Rs. 1.3 million ($ 23,941). In the
absence of the GEF opportunity, the department would have been expected to maintain this level
of expenditure.
8.    To a much lesser extent a few other institutions have been involved in activities related
to the conservation of medicinal plants in areas of interest to the present project. These include
the Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research and the Town and Country Planning
Department.
9.    Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR). The Ceylon Institute of
Scientific and Industrial Research has been conducting studies on medicinal plants over the past
several years. The institute at present spends about Rs. 100,000 ( $1,841) per year on medicinal
plant research. Although the institute might be expected to continue this level of finding, the
current state of medicinal plant supplies does not justify an expansion of research expenditure in
this area.
10.   Town and Country Planning Department. The Town and Country Planning Department
was involved in the establishment of the medicinal plant garden at Kataragama and presently
maintains it. In the absence of the GEF alternative, annual expenditures by the Town and
Country Department on the garden would likely to amount to Rs 1.5 million ($27,624).
Global Environmental Objective
I1.   As a consequence to the current course of action, regarded as the baseline, Sri Lanka will
probably preserve ex situ a very limited number of the most commonly used medicinal plants.
The plants that would most likely survive would be those which are presently cultivable and
have demonstrated an adequate profitability relative to other farm production. Given the present
pressures of agricultural and other competing demands on the use of land, and the present level
of institutional capacity, catastrophic loss of habitat areas will likely continue and gravely
diminish the quality of in situ biodiversity over the next ten to twenty years. The GEF alternative
would aim to install sufficient institutional capacity in Sri Lanka to increase the probability that a
wider spectrum of medicinal plant species would be preserved over the long term.
GEF Alternative
12.   As part of this capacity strengthening, the GEF alternative would undertake the
establishment of botanical reserves in areas representative of the country's agri-ecological zones
to institutionalize the in situ conservation of medicinal plants and to establish operating
procedures defining their sustainable use.
13.   In an effort to reduce the pressures of populations adjacent to the areas enclosing the
botanical reserves, the GEF alternative would actively link the development of village incomes
outside forest areas to preservation of the integrity of the reserves. This type of village



42
ANNEX 4
Page 4
development would be a targeted channeling of resources that are planned to made available for
regional development initiatives in the central northern and southern areas. The establishment
of the botanical reserves under the GEF altemative would also tie into ongoing plans to expand
the provision of Ayurvedic medicine in rural areas. The GEF alternative would add other
functions to the currently planned medical centers, allowing them to serve as facilities providing
training not only in Ayurvedic practice, but also in adding value to the cultivation or processing
of medicinal plants or in activities associated with the conservation of plants in the reserves.
14.   The GEF alternative would accelerate research on the propagation of plants ex situ and
expand agronomic research of those species that may be suitable for production on farms or in
plantation forests. The GEF alternative would also intensify current efforts to expand knowledge
of the botany of medicinal plants and their use in Sri Lanka. Resources would be committed to
raising local and international public awareness of the position of medicinal plants in Ayurvedic
culture to encourage the development of eco-tourism, which would aid the sustainability of the
conservation efforts.
System Boundary
15.   The primary impact of the'GEF alternative, implemented in the period of 1998-2002, is
to increase the number of medicinal plant species that would be preserved over time in Sri
Lanka, both in situ and ex situ. The GEF alternative would achieve this in installing the
institutional capacity for a specialized form of environmental management which is not high
among Sri Lanka's development priorities. The local population would benefit from the option
of continued availability of a wide range of medicinal plants that would have been lost without
the project. This domestic benefit may partly take the form, in the short run, of relatively less
expensive health care, and, in the long run, of patented pharmaceutical products. The country
may also realize additional international as well as domestic eco-tourism.
Domestic Benefits
16.   In terms of village development, the GEF alternative should achieve the same level of
domestic benefits as would have been achieved under the regional development plans now in
preparation for the central northern and southern areas of the country. The chief difference of
the GEF alternative is that some of the funds that would have been committed for communities
typical of those impacting medicinal plant habitats would now be directed for the development
of alternative village incomes that would contribute to the easing of population pressures upon
forest areas. The benefits from incremental eco-tourism are not expected to be large, but would
offset the recurrent operational and opportunity costs of maintaining the botanical reserves.
17.   In terms of the avoided loss of plant species, Sri Lanka should realize some value in
preserved biodiversity as mentioned in the preceding section. The domestic benefit of the
foregone loss in biodiversity value of medicinal plants provides an incentive for continued public
participation in the proposed project.
Costs
18.   The baseline activities undertaken by the institutions described above and the GEF
alternative can be grouped into the following categories: in situ conservation; ex situ cultivation;
research, education, training and extension; and village development. The GEF alternative



43
ANNEX 4
Page 5
would expand current in situ conservation through the establishment of botanical reserves, and
would involve village social organization, the development of village-based management plans,
reserve enrichment and investments to improve the management of the forests hosting medicinal
plant habitats. The total cost of in situ conservation under the GEF alternative is estimated at
US$0.99 million, as compared to US$0.26 million over the project period1. In the present
context, ex situ cultivation refers to physical investments in nurseries and gardens. As noted
earlier, the Government have already made significant commitments to the financing of such
types of infrastructure. The GEF alternative would make additional investments to expand the
capacity of such 'gene banks', providing approximately US$2.81 million over the project period
as compared to a baseline estimate of US$ 2.76 million. Rather than add much more to already
planned investment in gardens or herbaria, the GEF alternative would provide resources to
encourage and facilitate ex situ cultivation on farms and other areas through intensified research,
education, training and village extension. The GEF alternative would provide (incrementally)
approximately US$ 0.30 million for research on the propagation of medicinal plants, home
garden and plantation cultivation and the dissemination of research results to existing provincial
extension networks. The GEF alternative would also provide approximately US$ 50,000 to
enhance the education and eco-tourism potential of the existing botanical garden at Kataragama.
Village extension and education would also be key elements affecting the sustainability of the
botanical reserves that would be established under the GEF alternative, and would incorporate
existing commitments to expand Ayurvedic medical facilities into rural areas. The GEF
alternative would provide approximately US$ 1.13 million in incremental resources for
education and extension in villages about the reserves, financing, among other activities,
medicinal plant farming, product processing and marketing. The GEF alternative would
augment other research, capacity building and institutional strengthening, identifying
approximately US$ 0.83 million for sustainability studies and other research set within the
proposed botanical reserves, and approximately US$ 1.07 million for the promotion of changes
in legal and regulatory policy influencing the conservation or cultivation of medicinal plants, the
development of a national survey and information network of medicinal plant botany and use,
the undertaking of line agency capacity building and training, the development of quality
standards and the promotion of quality control, and general public education. In total, the GEF
alternative would allocate for research, education, training and extension approximately US$
20.74 over the project period as compared to US$ 17.43 of the baseline. Village economic
development, which is programmed in more than one regional development plan, does not
change in total under the GEF alternative. The GEF alternative would ensure that programmed
resources would be directed to villages that are stakeholders of the proposed botanical reserves
and would be linked to their participation in maintaining the integrity of the reserves. These
resources for village economic development amount to approximately US$ 0.27 million.
Finally, the GEF alternative would enhance project management capacity and project monitoring
and evaluation with the commitment of approximately US$ 0.48 million over the project period.
Domestic costs from planning documents here and elsewhere were converted to US dollar equivalents
using the following mid-year exchange rates (Rs/US$):
1998            1999            2000            2001             2002
60.86           64.48           67.07            69.75           72.54



44
ANNEX 4
Page 6
19.     Total financing requirements of the GEF alternative, including contingencies, over the
period of 1998-2002 would amount to about US$ 25.29 million as opposed to a baseline US$
20.72 million. The present value of the GEF alternative, using a LIBOR rate estimated at 5.15
percent, totals approximately US$ 21.80 million.
Incremental Cost Matrix
20.      The total incremental cost of financing the GEF alternative is estimated at US$ 4.56
million (see Table A). Operationally, this would mean that the Government would provide
counterpart financing of about US$ 0.5 million for development commitments that would have
occurred in the absence of the GEF alternative. These commitments include US$ 0.27 million
for village economic development, and other funds for the civil works of Ayurvedic medical
centers, Ayurvedic drug supplies, staff allowances, taxes and duties.
FRAMEWORK OF PRIVATE INCENTIVES AND COSTS TO SOCIETY
21.      The following tables are presented to lay out a framework for the collection of data
during the implementation of the project that should clarify the long-term losses to society that
would occur in the absence of action versus the incentives to individuals to realize short-term
economic returns. The figures required should represent net present economic values discounted
at the opportunity cost of capital, which is estimated at 12 percent.
22.      The first table presents an organization of data showing the average net benefits to
individuals per hectare of conservation area from activities that either directly involve the
physical use of medicinal plants, or affect plant habitat conditions.
Average Net Benefits to Individuals (US$/ha of Conservation Area per Stakeholder)
Threats                   small plant      commercial plant     local household    payments to third    Total per ha
collector          collector                                parties
Excessive Plant         to be quantified    to be quantified      probably not      to be quantified    based on row
Extraction                                                         applicable                              values
....................................... ............................................................................................I................................................................ ..........................
Forest Product                                                  to be quantified   to be quantified     based on row
Collection2                                                                                                values
~~~~~~..............    ................................... .......................................................   ......................................  ......
Land Conversion                                                      403.         probably <25% of    probably < 500
other benefits
Table elements:
Excessive Plant Extraction: collection of raw materials from plants in excess of sustainable
yields.
Forest Product Collection: harvesting of timber, fuelwood and other products that might disturb
plant populations.
Land Conversion: clearing of land for agricultural use.
Small Plant Collector: collector of small quantities of raw materials for local household use.
Commercial Plant Collector: collector operating on contract to gather raw materials in bulk.
Third Parties: individuals receiving payments from others carrying out the activities at the left of
the table.
2 Assuming that extraction does not lead to the denuding of areas.
3 Estimated on basis of US$50 net profit per hectare from subsistence farming discounted 12 percent over thirty years.



45
ANNEX 4
Page 7
23.       The second table presents the net losses to society from  excessive plant extraction, forest
product collection and land conversion.
Net Losses to Society (US$/ha of Conservation Area)
Threats        Tourism    Sustainable        Ayur.       Intellectual  Biodiversit      Forest           Other          Total
Harvesting     Medicines/      Property         y           Products
Pharnaceutical     Rents
s
Excessive       to be        to be      to be quantified    to be         non-        relation of         to be        based on
Plant         quantified    quantified                    quantified   quantifiable    plants to       quantified        row
Extraction                                                                             products                         values
unknown
.......     ........................................................ ........ ..................................................................................................   u w.............
Forest                       to be         probably                                    probably         probably       based on
Product                    quantified     insignificant                               insignificant    insignificant     row
Collection                                                                                                              values
..................... ....... Gw...............   Wi...........   ............i.6....................  1~..............................................................................    ........... ....  iw
Land            to be        to be      to be quantified    to be         non-           to be            to be        based.on
Conversion    quantified    quantified                    quantified   quantifiable   quantified       quantified        row
values
Table Elements:
Tourism: local incomes derived from site visits to the conservation areas plus travel cost
evaluations.
Sustainable Harvesting: long-term incomes to collectors observing prudent harvesting and best
practices.
Ayurvedic Medicines/Pharmaceuticals: benefits of continued supplies of traditional medicines
and of keeping open the option for pharmaceutical prospecting.
Intellectual Property Rents: public incomes derived from the licensing of pharmaceutical
developed from medicinal plants.
Biodiversity: the local and global ecological value of maintaining the gene pool of medicinal
plants.
Forest Products: incomes from sustainable harvests of timber, wood and other products



46
ANNEX 4
Page 8
Table A: Incremental Cost Matrix
Cost          US$
Compone  Category  Million                          Domestic Benefit                            Global Benefit
nt
In Situ        Baseline           0.26     Limited preservation of unrepresentative
Cultivation    (Govt                       sample of surviving species; severely restricted
development                 resources for medicinal alternatives.
priority)
with GEF          0.99      Preservation of representative samples of  Preservation of unique pool of genetic
Alternative                 species in each major ecological zone through    information of potential, future medicinal
the establishment of botanical reserves;   value.
improved scope for popularizing medicinal
alternatives.
incremental       0.73
Ex Situ        Baseline           2.27     Continued cultivation of current set of known
Cultivation    (Govt                       cultivable species
development
priority)
with GEF          2.81      Expansion of number of cultivable species;  Preservation of unique pool of genetic
Altemative                  expansion of cultivation over baseline; reduced  information of potential, future medicinal
pressure on species in situ; improved scope for   value.
I popularizing medicinal alternatives.
Incremental       0.54
Research,      Baseline          17.43     Efficiency and long-term effectiveness of the
Education,     (Govt                       implementation of local rural development
Training &     development                 initiatives.
Extension      priority)
with GEF         20.74      As above with emphasis & additional efforts    Improved long-term sustainability of global
Alternative                 targeting the sustainable use of botanical  efforts through increased local capacity for
reserves established under the project.    biodiversity conservation, enhanced local
appreciation of the preservation value of
domestic resources & the equitable
definition of intellectual property rights.
Incremental       3.31
Village        Baseline           0.27     Promotion of local income opportunities.
Development   (Govt
development
priority)
with GEF          0.27      Promotion of local income opportunities linked   Sustainability of conservation efforts
Alternative                 to medicinal plant cultivation and the in situ  through the enhanced local appreciation of
integrity of habitats.                     the preservation value of domestic
resources.
Incremental       0.00
Project        Baseline          0.00
Management   (Govt
& M&E          development
priority)
with GEF          0.48      Capacity to coordinate & implement resource    Increased capacity for the management of
Alternative                 management project activities.             biological reserves.
Incremental       0.48
Total          Baseline          20.72     rural development & continuation of ayurvedic
traditions.
with GEF         25.29      Same as baseline except substantially larger  Considerably improved likelihood of
Alternative                 number of medicinal plants conserved &     potentially globally significant habitats,
cultivated; enhanced capacity to sustain   species & genomes conserved; enhanced
conservation initiatives (including improved  operational experience of projects
opportunities for eco-tourism).           involving intellectual property rights.
Incremental       4.56



47
ANNEX 5
SRI LANKA
Conservation and sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(Cufrency: US $)
million
implementation Period                        Operational Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Project Costs
Investment Costs             1.58     0.86     0.92    0.81     0.79
Recurrent Costs              0.02     0.02     0.02    0.02     0.03
Total                      1.60    0.88     0.94     0.83    0.81
Financing Sources (% of total
uroiect costs!                                              Total
IBRD/IDA
Co-financiers
Government                                                     9.9%
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries
GEF                                                              90.1%
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total



48
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
A.    Works
*  Package of Works: Due to the small size of these contracts (less than US $ 40,000) and as
these are geographically scattered, these can be awarded by inviting bids from at least three
qualified contractors in the area of the project site.
*  Procurement of Schedules: Detailed procurement schedules for works is presented in the
Project implementation Plan.
*  Design and Specification: The design and specification of building to be constructed will be
prepared by MIM and approved by the Bank.
*  Bidding Documents: Simplified bidding documents based on the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Procurement of works (Smaller Contracts, January 1995) and adjusted to
satisfy requirements that are acceptable to the Bank and already agreed with GoSL will be
used and contracts will be concluded following procedures acceptable to the Bank. In
general, works under the project will be small and geographically scattered, and are not
likely to be of interest to outside bidders.
*  Land: MIM will enter into an MOU with Provincial Councils and Forest Departments to
acquire land for works.
B.    Goods, Equipment, Machinery, Supplies, Vehicles
*  Procurement Packages: Convenient procurement packages have been defined for each
category of goods, machinery, equipment and vehicles, and agreed with the Bank.
Competitive Bidding is not expected to be required due to the size and propriety nature of
the packages. The packages will include field equipment for planned studies under the
project, processing equipment for village information centers, some office equipment for
village information centers, dispensary equipment, fencing, planting materials for botanical
reserves and gardens, training equipment whose use will be coordinated at the national level,
office and other O&M (except for vehicles), and items to be purchased for village
development activities. The goods procurement account does not include items that may be
purchased or rented under the contracts for studies or research that are described below.
*  Procurement Schedule: Detailed procurement schedules for all packages have been
provided in Project Implementation Plan.
*  Design and Specification: The design and specification for goods for National Shopping
procedures will be prepared by MIM and approved by the Bank.



49
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Invitation Documents: Standard bidding documents agreed with MIM and based on the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, January 1995, will be used
and contracts concluded using procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for other goods,
including special equipment, which can be grouped together to make large packages will be
procured following international shopping procedures. Items or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US $ 25,000 for each contract will be procured following
International and/or National Shopping Procedures up to an amount of US $ 350,000 calling
for at least three quotations from reputed suppliers. All transport under the project will be
hired locally as necessary.
C.    TA, Training, Studies & Services
* Procurement Packages: Consultants services will include both internationally and locally
recruited consultants. The contract packages shall consist of: (i) an operations support
contract to assist the PMU in implementing various project activities -- primarily those in
the MPCAs; and (ii) a number of small local contracts for carrying out studies/surveys and
the preparation of training and educational materials.
Local and international training for staff and officers of MIM will be based on detailed plans
that will be prepared by MIM. These plans will outline the areas of study, the number of
personnel to be trained, training institutions and the years in which training will take place.
Local training will be arranged by MIM and procured using National Shopping procedures.
Where the purchase of materials for training is required, items will be grouped, if feasible,
into appropriately sized packages to facilitate national shopping. Stipends for students
studying under Ayurvedic trainers at the medicaVinformation centers established by the
project may be paid by Force Account.
There will be five bundles of contracts to execute studies, research and other professional
services under the project: (i) plant propagation & on-farm research, agricultural systems
study, home garden and plantation research; (ii) ethnobotanical surveys, medicinal plant
inventory in the MPCAs, growth and yield studies in the MPCAs; (iii) database design and
development; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and (v) development of training and
educational materials. Bundles (i) and (ii) involve a number of different tasks and may be
carried out as one or more contracts. Items (iii) and (v) will likely be submitted as single
contracts. Monitoring and evaluation, as it includes the costs of an advisory group involving
experts abroad, will consist of one contract for actual M&E activities in country and then
possibly several ad hoc arrangements defined under a Memorandum of Understanding with
participating institutions to cover travel and subsistence expenses of convening advisory
group members. Bidding procedures for the studies will be similar to those established for
contracted research under other Bank projects in Sri Lanka.
Miscellaneous services include the rental of office and building space, the rental of
computers and other equipment, the purchase of professional office services for word
processing, report production and replication, etc. These will be procured through National
Shopping procedures.
Procurement Schedule: Detailed procurement schedules for all TA inputs and studies have
been provided in the Project Implementation Plan.



50
ANNEX 6
Page 3
* Design and Specification: All TORs for TA and studies will be drafted by MIM and
approved by the Bank.
*  Bidding Documents: Consultants will be recruited following the Bank's Guidelines,
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and
using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants Services, June 1995.
Consultants will be hired through normal quality and cost based Bank procedures. A request
for sole sourcing of the TA contract to the IUCN has been received from MIM and approved
by the Bank. The Bank approved the sole sourcing request after fulfillment of the following
conditions: (i) receipt of a formal request from GoSL containing IUCN's understanding with
a regional and international entity of excellence in the areas covered by the draft TORs; and
(ii) assurance of financial management expertise. Sole-sourcing is decided on fair technical
grounds and is awarded to an entity that has the best expertise to provide technical
assistance.
All studies will also follow the Bank's guidelines defined for the selection and employment
of services and use the standard Bank form of contract established for consultants services.
Training expenditures and other services, to the extent that they can be packaged will be
documented as appropriate for National Shopping procedures (see section C above).
D.    Miscellaneous
Procurement Packages: Miscellaneous procurement items include: land surveys and labor
for improvements in the botanical reserves and gardens; project management personnel at
the reserves; and staff allowances. The labor required for land improvements at the reserves
may be grouped accordiig to specific tasks and arranged through local Direct Contracting.
Project management personnel for the reserves will be hired through Direct Contracting.
Staff allowances are not financed by GEF under the project.
*  Procurement Schedule: Detailed procurement schedules for all packages have been
provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
*  Design and Specification: MIM will consult with the Bank regarding the methodology and
documentation of the data of the land surveys to be conducted over the proposed sites of the
botanic reserves.
*  Bidding Documents: The land surveys for the five botanical reserves may be grouped to
form one package that may be documented as appropriate for National Shopping (see section
C above).
E.    Prior/Post Review
As most contracts will be below the threshold amounts, the Bank will review only the first
two contracts to ensure compliance with the Bank's thresholds and Standards Bidding
Documents for Procurement. Contracts will be subject to post review by the Supervision
missions on a selected basis. As regards Consultants Services, contracts in excess of US $
100,000 for firms and US $ 50,000 for individuals will be subject to prior review, but TORs
in respect of all contracts, irrespective of amounts, will be subject to the Bank's prior review.



51
ANNEX 6
Page 4
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Pruwurenmert Method
Consulting
*  Other    Services    N.B.F.    Tetal
A. Works
1. Civil Works                                                         0.18           -        -      0.18
(0.15)                         (0.15)
B. Goods
1. Vehicle                                                             0.15           -        -      0.15
(0.12)                         (0.12)
2. Machinery & Equipment Purchase and Rental /b                        0.14           -        -       0.14
(0.14)                         (0.14
3. Materials /c                                                        0.46        0.15     0.40       1.0
(0.46)      (0.14              (0.58)
C. TA, Training, Studies & Services
1. Institutional Development
TA Operations                                                           -        1.40        -       1.40
(1.40)             (1.40)
TA Management /d                                                     0.13           -        -      0.13
(0.13)                         (0.13)
2. Local Training /e                                                   0.15           -        -       0.15
(0.15)                         (0.15)
3. Development of Educational Materials                                   -        0.14        -       0.14
(0.14)             (0.14)
4. Specialised Extenal Training                                           -        0.29        -       0.29
(0.29)             (0.29)
5. Studies/Research/Service Contracts
Propagation Research, On-Farm Research, Agricultural Systems
Study, Home Garden and Plantation Research                                       0.38        -      0.38
(0.38)             (0.38)
Ethnobotanical Surveys, Medicinal Plant Inventory, Grwth and
Yield Studies                                                                    0.14        -      0.14
(0.14)             (0.14)
Database Design and Development                                        -         0.14        -      0.14
(0.14)             (0.14)
Monitoring & Evaluation                                                -         0.07        -      0.07
(0.07)             (0.07)
6. Misc Services /f                                                    0.19           -     0.03       0.22
(0.19)                         (0.19)
D. Miscellaneous
I. Labor for Improvements in Reserves & Gardens /g                     0.14           -        -      0.14
(0.14)                         (0.14)
2. Project Management Personnel /h                                     0.38           -        -       0.38
(0.38)                         (0.38)
3. Staff Allowances /i                                                    -           -     0.01       0.01
Total                                                                    1.93         2.70     0.44      5.07
(1.90)      (2.70)       -     (4.57)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by GEF
\a Includes some new & existing botanic garden & nursery structure
village dispensary office/processing rooms
\b Includes medical information center processing office, dispensary equipment; fencing for gardens.
\c Includes planting materials; items for village workshops & meetings; items for village development activities; office
garden & infonmation center O&M
\d Staffing of PMU.
\e Village study tours, employment of Ayurvedic trainers, village apprentice stipends and village para-forester stipends,
local staff training.
\f Includes cartography, the rental of space, computers & other equipment; report production & replication; office
services; village staff for information centers; ola manuscript transcription, research publication, chemical analysis.
\g hnplemented by FD.
\h Staffing of offices in the five project areas.
\i TADA to be provided as Government contribution.



52
ANNEX 6
Page 5
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$: million)
Expenditure           Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method                Prior Review
1. Works
Civil works                                    Local Shopping          First two contracts
2. Goods
Vehicles                                       Local Shopping          First two contracts
Machinery                                      International Shopping
Materials and                                  Local Shopping
consumable
3. Services
Consulting Services                            International Selection  100,000 for firms and
50,000 for individuals
4. Miscellaneous
Local Shopping
Force Account
Note:
IS:    International Shopping
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding



53
ANNEX 6
Page 6
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
(US $: million)
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million   Financing Percentage
1. Works                                              162,600        85 %
2. Goods                                             982,100         100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures
for other items
procured locally.
3. Services                                         3,276,100        100%
4. Unallocated                                         151,900
TOTAL                                                4,572,700



54
ANNEX 7
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Aotual
(At final PCD stage)
N/A                  157
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actl
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                          30 (approx)
First Bank mission (identification)                                 02/27/1995
Appraisal mission departure                                         09/07/1997
Negotiations                                                        09/20/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                     By 03/15/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine with consultancy assistance from
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (Sri Lanka).
Preparation assistance: PDF (Block B) grant of US $ 320,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Malcolm Jansen (ASUEN),
Nadim Khouri (SASRD),
Sumith Pilapitiya (SASRD),
Mohammed Bekhechi (LEGEN),
Jose P. Correia da Silva (LEGSA),
Vimala Abraham (LOAAS),
Hung Kim Phung (LOAAS).
Geraldine B. Burnett (SASRD)
Bank consultant staff included:
Barry Deren (Economist),
Michael Balick (Ethnobotanist),
Charles Peters (Forester/Conservation Specialist), joined the Appraisal mission
Salma Omar-Chowdhury (Social Scientist)



55
ANNEX 8
SRI LANKA
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff and Other Assessments
1. Background report on environmental analysis for the project:
(a) Threatened medicinal plants of Sri Lanka.
(b) Commonly Used Medicinal Plants of Sri Lanka
(c) Heavily Used Medicinal Plants of Sri Lanka
(d) Selection of sites for establishment of MPCAs
2.     Environmental Review
3.     Social Assessment.
(a) Report on Indigenous People
4.     Technical reviews from GEF's Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel.
S.     Economic Analysis:
(a) Considerations for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of
Medicinal Plants
(b) Working Paper: Economic Analysis
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



56
ANNEX 9
page 1
Status of Bank Group Operations in SRI LANKA
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of September 30, 1997)
Differn
between
expected
Original amount in USS                    and actual
Project      Loan or  Fiscal                                               mlllioDs                           disbursementl
ID        Credit No. Year Borrower             Purpose             IBRD       IDA   Cancell. Undisbursed   Orig  Fnn Revd
Number of Closed
Loans/Credits:     71
Active Loans
LK-PE-10498    C29380   1997 GOSL         ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY                24.20                 22.93   23.92
LK-PE-10513    CN0140  1997 GOSL          ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                    14.80                  13.80   13.94
LK-PE-10526    C29820  1997 GOSL          HEALTH SERVICES DEV                     18.80                  17.54   18.49
LK-PE-10517    C28800  1996 GOSL          PVT. SECTOR INFRAS. DE                  77.00                 71.65   76.23
LK-PE-42263    C28370  1996 GOSL          TELECOM REG. & PUBL.                    15.00                 12.23   12.92
LK-PE-42266    C28810   1996 GOSL         TEACH ED& DEPLOYMEN                     64.10                 58.33   62.09
LK-PE-10467    C27570  1995 GOSL          COL. ENVIRON. IMPROVE.                  39.00                 29.30   34.11
LK-PE-10409    C24420  1993 GOSL          COMMUNITY WATER SUP                     24.30                  7.16    7.63
LK-PE-10419    C24840  1993 GOSL          PRIVATE FINANCE DEV.                    60.00                  9.26    6.21
LK-PE-10420    C24950   1993 GOSL         COLOMBO URB. TRANSP.                    20.00                  9.65    9.39
LK-PE-10386    C22970  1992 GOSL          POWERDISTRIBUTION                       50.00                 31.62   29.63
LK-PE-10398    C23800  1992 GOSL          2ND AGR. EXTENSION                      14.34                  7.98    7.64
LK-PE-10363    C21830  1991 GOSL          3RDROADS                                42.50                 11.52   10.67
LK-PE-10368    C22310  1991 GOSL          POVERTYALLEVIATION                      57.50      9.21       12.26   21.04       11.55
LK-PE-10373    C22490  1991 GOSLICEB TELECOMS II                                  57.00                 24.33   25.34      25.34
LK-PE-10378    C22600  1991 GOSL          IRRIG. REHAB.                           29.60                 14.90   13.99
TOTAL                                                                  0.00    608.14     9.21       354.46  373.24      36.89
Active Loans              Closed Loans              Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)        234.60                   1438.39            1672.99
Of which repaid                       0.00                    168.73             168.73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA        598.93                   1222.20            1821.13
Amount sold                             0.00                      3.59               3.59
Of which repaid                       0.00                      3.59               3.59
Total undisbursed                     354.46        -             6.63             361.09
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month:



57
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Sri Lanka - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1997
(In US$ Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
I                     I         I                       I
FYApproval    Company                   Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic       Loan Equity   Quasi Partic
1980/84/85/86   Lanka Orix              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1981          Lanka Hotels               0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00     010M   0.64    0.00   0.00
1988/95       Union Assurance            0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.98    0.00   0.00
1992          CKN Fund Mgmt.             0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.06    0.00   0.00
1992          Pyramid Trust              0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.25    0.00   0.00
1993/94       Lanka Cellular             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996/97       Asia Power                10.00    2.27    0.00   10.00     0.00   2.27    0.00   0.00
1997          Packages Lanka             0.00    1.11   0.00    0.00      0.00    1.11    0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:         20.00    5.31    0.00   10.00     2.00   5.31     0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
1996          ASIA POWER                 0.00    0.00   2.50   0.00
1997          LOFAC                      1.50    0.26    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitnen    1.50    0.26    2.50    0.00



58                                  A.7NNEX  10
Page 1
Sri Lanka at a glance                                                            8128197
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Sri    South    Low-   _
Lanka      Asia  Income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millins)                        18.3     1,264    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            740       380      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biiions US$)                               13.8      481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        1.3       1.9     1.7      GNP                            Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.0       2.1     1.7       p    Iross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                      enrollnent
Poverty: headcount index (% of populabton)            22         .
Urban population (% of total population)              22        28       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      72        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live biOhas)              16        75       69               Accestosafe wabr
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            36         ..      ..
Access to safe water (% of population)                57        63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  10        50       34               Sri Lanka
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  105      98      105                  L
Male                                               106       110      112               Low-Icome group
Female                                             104        87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1996    1996
GDP (billions USS)                           3.8      8.0      12.9    14.0      Econokratim'
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                15.8    22.2       25.7    24.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and senricesiGDP           27.5    26.0       35.9
Gross domestic savlngs/GDP                   8.1    10.2       15.3    15.5
Gross national savingslGDP                   9.7    15.5       19.8    19.9
Current account balance/GDP                 -2.9    -7.0       -5.0.    -3.9
Interest paymentslGDP                        0.5      1.9       2.1     1.8      Savings                     Investment
Total debtWGDP                              21.5    59.2       49.6    45.2
Total debt servicelexports                  26.1    16.5        7.3
Present value of deWVGDP                      .        ..      43.1       .
Present value of debWexports                  ..        ,      99.5       *-                Indebbdness
1975-45  19o-9S    1996       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                               -  Sn Lanka
GDP                                 5.3      4.8      55        3.7     4.9                                              I
GNP per capita                      3.7      3.0      4A        1.8     3.7               Low-income group
Exports of goods and servIces       4.7      9.3     11.5       8.7     7.2
STIRUCTURE of tfh ECONOMY
1975    1985      1095    199S
(% of GOP)                                                                       Gr99  rates of outiA and inveabat I%)
Agricuture                                  30.4    27.7       23.0    22A      15
Industry                                    26.4    28.2       25.1    25.2     1.
Manufacturing                             20.1    14.7       15.7    18.2
Services                                    43.2    46.1       51.9    52.4           7
Private consumption                         82.6    79.5       72.9      ..             el   22    3    .4 o    5 
General govemment consumpton                 9.3    10.2       11.8       .                    GDI   --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services               35.0    38.0       48.3       .-.GI-G
1975-85  1986-96     1995    199o
(average annual gwth)                                                           Grwth rats of ods wnd hbpt (%)
Agrkulture                                   4.3     21         3.3    -4.6    1s
Industy                                      5.1     5.7        7.7     6.0  -
Manufacturing                              4.3      7.8       9.2      6.5    10
Services                                     8.6     5.1        5.1     5.8
Private consumpton                           6.1     4.4        7.1      ..
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  5.2     3.7       -1.1      ..                  12   93   94   95   is
Gross domestic invesment                    12.5     2.6        0.5       ..   -4
Imports of goods and servAes                13.2     6.1        6.0     6.4                   ExportB     . Impors
Gross natinal product                        5.4      4.3       5.9     3.1
Note 1996 data are prelminary smats Fgures In Italics are for years other than thosespecfed.
The diamonds show four key ndkators In the oountry On bodl) compared with Its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be hncompiete.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                               6.6      1.5       11,5     16.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         5.4      0.6        8.4     12.1
10.
Govemment finance
(%/ of GDP)                                                                           
Current revenue                                 ..    22.3       20.7     20.3            91   92   93   94   95   99
Current budget balance                          ..     2.2       -2.0     -2.4                    GDP def.  -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -11.7       -10.1     -9.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and import levels (mill US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,333      3,798    4,097     s,ooo
Tea                                            ..    442        480      616
Other agricultural goods                      ..      94        348      346
Manufactures                                  ..    233.   2,854    2,991         4,000
Total imports (cif)                            ..     1,948     5,312    5,416
Food21                                                          72        0       200
Fuel and energy                                      404        321      324
Capital goods                                 ..     382      1,188    1,202 
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      96       121      124            90  91  92  93  94  95  go
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..      86       155       160                  o Exports    * Imoorts
Terms of trade (19S7=100)                       ..    111         78        78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     196
(millions US$)                                                                     Current acceunt balance tO GOP nraiO 1%)
Exports of goods and services                 632    1,561      4,841    5,039     o
Imports of goods and services                 804    2,296      6,064    6,209    .      | |      92  93  94   95 9|
Resource balance                             -172     -734    -1,223   -1,170
-2
Net income                                    -18     -127       -277     -248
Net current transfers                          80      443       853      869
Current account balance,
be-fore official capital transfers          -110     -419      -647     -549    |U
Financing items (net)                          84      304       632      562
Changes in net reserves                        26      115        15      -13    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            57      472      2,066    2,011
Conversion rate (/ocal/IUS$)                  7.0     27.2       51.3     55.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          815    3,540      6,407    6,346
IBRD                                         36       61        49       40                      G  A
IDA                                          39      397      1,463    1,516              F    535          B B
Total debt service                            169      320       608      704               614              1516
IBRD                                          6        9        12       11
IDA                                           0        3        19       20
Composition of net resource flows                                                           S'
Official grants                              56      151       174
Official creditors                           61      297       317
Private creditors                           -22       44        15        ..                                  D
Foreign direct investment                     0       26        63        ..                 E               -581
Portfolio equity                              0        0        61        ..               3627
World Bank program
Commitments                                  30      137        39      156      A - IBRD                     E - Bilteral
Disbursements                                19       79       106      104      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal tepayments                          3        5        15        16      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    16       74        92       88   I_1
Interest payments                             3        8        16       15
Net transfers                                14       66        76       73
Development Economics                                                                                                8128197



-10-                         810:                                                  811-                                                   812 1 1 -0
ao-                                                   81                 SRI LANKA                           b2
CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE
OF MEDICINAL PLANTS PROJECT
PROPOSED MEDICINAL PLANT
CONSERVATION AREAS AND THEIR
CLIMATIC CHARACTERISTICS
Ub '.      r      l                      '-0\> g >> 4\   PROPOSED MEDICINAL PLANT CONSERVATION AREAS
A    RAINFALL GUAGE STATIONS
O    TOWNS
IA   PROVENCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
*   AGRO'CUMATIC ZONE BOUNDARIES
RESERVOIRS
)       NC  R THr RN                                             -        PROVE OUNDARIES
J   P R O V  1CE                                              ALTIIUDE IN METERS:
2000
P.           A-~
Si i ''                                                     Ki                   ,                              100
K
-50jS;giriya     ?                                A      ll*X                                    -   ICC (g  _  
50-                loo nIn?                                                                                       Noula Tank
40                                             Pc.-,                                                                             STE 5
30                                   ,                                 000
20                                                          Z DROOE                                          so "To
I      /                  '       (rainfall < 1900mm)                         oT     1      30
JFMA MJJS07D   (                              ),,                     |                                      J.
CEN   RL                        /                     '\--  JFMTAMRJASOND
, ~   ' j       Tdowoo                                  '- '^2  > + \  < hurgu    >   i   G 'C               Ppl -
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                       1   P_<00l  
<Rihigala *            V 
P        WESTERN .'O            GoI,nooO               ""' ,      p,,,,0 3< O-N
\ PRO VI NCE \ i '     -                                            W&Lauo @Aaodo\Sito d4) Ronoro
,4,         ,=<,I                                      -            00                 20
NORTH    t'C""' fo,n, A )                   Si!piriya                                 r      IC
\\i PROVINCE        r       >      ;,9 .        ''    s " 'gi it      0          Xibile  *1JFMAMJJASOND
jNau~~~~,,jJ~~~~A~~~  ' ~EA    ER
x~~~~~--1 Ku;                                                          K' wH      A    -\   
5D~       ~ ~ ~~~~ d        <                                                     VICERc,    <  ( 
<PROVINCERVICE,t
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A
- ~~~W~~~SSqTHRER,"" aNo I                                                                      4   0
PRO    NCE                                                     bileP   *AN E  /004000
A                   ~~~~                                                                                                                 0~~
so,    Mat..,                       RI'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRM
Ku~~~~~\  -_XX1 mbonila  K IOESTERN    2
g  _                    ~~~SOUTH                     '              <2  6
c~~~~~RV



