                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29629

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28370)

                                                  ON A

                                                 GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.57 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

         GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                                FOR THE

         CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF MEDICINAL PLANTS PROJECT




                                           December 15, 2004




South Asia Environment and Social Development Sector
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2004)

                     Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee
                              LKR = US$ 0.0095
                          US$ 1.00 = LKR105.24
                              Borrowers
                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1    December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADCDC   -      Ayurvedic, Drugs, Cosmetics and Devices
BMARI   -      Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurvedic Research Institute
CAMCs   -      Conservation Area Management Committees
CBD     -      Convention on Biological Diversity
CDOs    -      Community Development Organisations
CONSMP -       Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
DOA     -      Department of Ayurveda
GEF     -      Global Environmental Facility
GND     -      Grama Niladari Division (an administrative border)
GOSL    -      Government of Sri Lanka
IDA     -      International Development Agency
IEC     -      Information and Education and Communications
IM      -      Indigenous Medicine
ISOA    -      Institutional Sector and Organisational Analysis
IUCN    -      World Conservation Union
MIM     -      Ministry of Indigenous Medicine
MPCA    -      Medicinal Plant Conservation Area
NITM    -      National Institute for Traditional Medicine
PMU     -      Project Management Unit
VPMCs   -      Village Project Management Committees

                    Vice President:    Praful C Patel
                 Country Director      Peter Harrold
                   Sector Manager      Jeffrey Racki
   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Malcolm Jansen/Sumith Pilapitiya

                                         SRI LANKA
CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF MEDICINAL PLANTS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                      Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    12
6. Sustainability                                                                        13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       18
9. Partner Comments                                                                      21
10. Additional Information                                                               23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    33
Annex 8. Agenda for Additional Learning and Knowledge Sharing                            37
Annex 9. Options for Future Government Interventions to the Indigenous Medicine Sector   41
Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution                                                        45

Project ID: P035828                                                  Project Name: Conservation and Sustainable Use of
                                                                     Medicinal Plants Project
Team Leader: Malcolm A. B. Jansen                                    TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal            L/C/TF Number: TF-28370
                            Plants Project
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (46%); Central government
                            administration (25%); Forestry (17%); Other social services (7%);
                            Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1995                                     Effective: 05/08/1998                05/08/1998
     Appraisal: 09/01/1997                                         MTR: 10/15/2000                  10/15/2000
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka/Ministry of
                                           Indigenous Medicine
                      Other Partners:      Department of Forestry, Department of Wildlife Conservation, Communities,
                                           Provincial Department of Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda, BMARI

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:                 Jeffrey Racki                                  Ridwan Ali & Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             Malcolm Jansen & Sumith                        Nadim Khouri & Malcolm Jansen
                                Pilapitiya
ICR Primary Author:             Robert Crown


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
At the time of project identification, Sri Lanka was known to contain about 3,500 species of
plants and 100 species of ferns of which about 1,500 have medicinal value. Of these medicinal
plants, about 190 were found only in Sri Lanka. A well-developed traditional medical system
(ayurvedic medicine) addressing up to 300 ailments had evolved, including as many as 15,000
practitioners (compared to about 11,000 Western trained practitioners), several hundred
ayurvedic clinics, 38 dedicated hospitals and 2 professional training institutes. Dependency on
ayurvedic medicine was particularly high among the rural and the poor populations.

Environmental assessments conducted in the early 1990s (National Environmental Action Plan,
1991; Updated, 1994) showed increased destruction of natural habitats through population
expansion into arable lands, uncontrolled forestry exploitation, and other human-induced factors
(waste disposal, pollution, urbanization) that placed medical plant species at risk ( about 80 being
considered "endangered") along with other flora and fauna. In addition, growth in demand for
plant material was encouraging more aggressive harvesting using traditional methods as well as
the growing importation of basic plant materials (meeting about 60% of demand at project
identification). Combined, these trends were seen as endangering both the sustainability of the
supply of indigenous-grown plant materials with known medicinal value, and increasing the
reliance on imported plant materials. This appeared to represent both a risk to Sri Lanka's
biodiversity and to the health status among the poor.

The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) began to update its strategy for biodiversity protection in
the mid 1990s, with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors. Preparation of a
Biodiversity Framework for Action (a biodiversity action plan) was identified as the first of 2
"phases" of the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) support to GOSL, through the World Bank;
the second being an investment program that became the current project. GOSL also had at this
time, ongoing interventions in forestry sector development; environmental, biodiversity and
wildlife protection skills and awareness enhancement; promoting community participation in
forest management; and embryonic skills enhancement in medicinal plant identification and
nursery management. However, GOSL recognized that its resources would be limited. Therefore,
in the implementation of the Framework for Action, it foresaw promoting community involvement
and developing community initiatives in these activities, while playing a facilitator's role.

The international community had a strong interest in biodiversity protection that culminated in
agreement on the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 1992. The Bank had also
identified environmental and biodiversity protection as one of its concerns within its country
assistance strategies. It had participated in the development of the environmental action plans and
contributed to the financing of several GOSL initiatives in the sector including a Forest Sector
Development Project that closed in December of 1996. The Bank was also focused on the causes
and effects of poverty and poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka to which the promotion of income
generating activities could contribute. It also supported health sector improvement interventions,
although at the time it gave priority to promoting the "western model" of health care. GEF had
also identified the need to protect medicinal plants as a special concern in Asia, where the
potential loss of medically valuable genetic materials which might produce global benefits through



                                                  - 2 -

improved or new pharmaceuticals, developed from plants.

Responding to these factors, GOSL adopted the developmental objective of the project as to
conserve globally and nationally significant medicinal plants, their habitats, species and
         1


genomes and promote their sustainable use. While the specific attention was placed on
conservation and sustainable use of medicinal plants found in the wild ("in situ"), it was assumed
that complementary activities such as the production of medicinal plants "ex situ" as a substitute
for harvesting from the wild, would provide a source of income for the individuals and
communities, and provide further incentives to protect and use forest resources responsibly. The
objective was also consistent with the goals of the GEF from which funding was solicited.

The project's goals were clear and operational. Indicators of project achievement: principally, the
establishment of a viable community-based and participatory management system for bio-diverse
areas with a known medicinal plants population, were relevant and readily monitorable. Indicators
of medicinal plant conservation, although indirect namely, an increase in the number and volume
of medicinal plants being cultivated outside of the forests (as a substitute for harvesting); and
enhanced knowledge and capacity to manage medicinal plants sustainably in the wild, were also
relevant and monitorable.

The scope of the project was considered to be within GOSL capacity (when augmented by
appropriate advisory assistance). It would work in 5 locations and through a specially designated
and temporary Project Management Unit (PMU), draw on the technical expertise of national
agencies with established knowledge of ayurvedic medicine (Department of Ayurveda and its
dependant institutes), agricultural extension, wildlife and forestry management, and international
expertise in biodiversity through the World Conservation Union (IUCN). However, actually
achieving the objectives would be complex and require finding a delicate combination of
incentives and sanctions to affect a behavior change on the part of traditional forest users
(villagers for farming and gathering, loggers). It would also require establishing more attractive
income earning alternatives to traditional forest exploitation to reduce pressures on plants found
in the wild. Also, in order that project benefits reach villagers and holders of traditional
knowledge, the GOSL would have to resolve legal and political issues related to intellectual
property rights over traditional knowledge, and enforce them. This had never been fully
accomplished in less developed countries.

The project team was aware of these complexities and inherent risks in achieving project
objectives. They were also conscious of the controversial aspects of attempting to restrict and
regulate access to traditional knowledge and indigenous plant materials and develop an
intellectual property rights regime and made provision in project preparation and design to
attempt to mitigate the risks. The Team and GOSL were particularly attentive to conducting
stakeholder consultations among agencies and stakeholders, and to reach out to beneficiaries at
the village level during this process. Moreover, the team recognized the essential "piloting" of
several project interventions, and that follow-on investments would probably be required to have
a longer-lasting impact on the underlying supply-demand balances for medicinal plants, and on
attitudes and behavior towards using natural resources. Had the instrument been available, the
project might have been a candidate for a "Learning and Innovation Loan".



                                                - 3 -

The project's formally-stated objectives remained valid throughout project implementation
although the geographic scope of the project was reduced to 4 sites from 5 during implementation
when intractable differences with a national partner agency on project goals and implementation
procedures arose in this agency's area of operation. More importantly, however, it became clear
that villagers were less concerned for conserving medicinal plants per se than raising incomes and
addressing community needs, even though it was understood that conservation and sustainable
use of the forests could contribute to these broader goals. After the Mid Term Review, therefore,
the PMU re-focused its approach and adopted a participatory village/community development
model as a framework in which promoting the sustainable use of plants from the wild played a
part. This change of focus was an appropriate response and eventually enriched the development
impact of the project, was well documented and discussed, and did not require a formal legal
amendment.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation. Recognizing the validity of the
project's objectives, the Bank agreed to extend project closing by one year (from June 30, 2003,
to June 30, 2004) to allow further time to complete field activities that were slowed due to the
security situation in the Bibile Medicinal Plant Conservation Area (MPCA) (that was near an
unstable border area) and the severe drought that prevailed in the project areas.


3.3 Original Components:
The project planned to reach its goals by mobilizing the collaboration of local populations in
villages in or near areas known for active collection of medicinal plants from the wild. These
areas, called Medical Plant Conservation Areas were to be associated with other conservation
zones (such as forestry conservation areas, strict nature reserves, sanctuaries, and other forest
categories that contain significant medicinal plant populations). Each MPCA would be structured
through Village Project Management Committees (VPMCs; one per village comprising upto 12
persons) that would be amalgamated into a Conservation Area Management Committee (CAMC).
Through this structure, villagers would be encouraged to, modify their traditional harvesting and
use practices, adopt the cultivation of medical plants as a substitute for harvesting from the wild
and offered opportunities to develop new sources of income from value added enterprises. They
would be offered technical assistance, organizational support and other services aimed at
facilitating such changes. GOSL would provide upstream organizational structures intended to
sustain villagers' interests. The project actions for operationalizing this implementation strategy
were grouped in four components:

i)      Expansion of conservation and sustainable use of medicinal plants in situ, in the newly
designated Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas (MPCAs), through activities covering
socio-economic and ethnobotanical data collection to establish baseline information and
inventories; growth and yield studies (sustainability studies) of various species; education in and
extension of ayurvedic medicine practices; development and application of conservation
strategies; and the development of action plans for harvesting, processing, and producing
medicinal plants in a sustainable manner at the village level (Village Action Plans);




                                                - 4 -

ii)     Expansion of ex situ cultivation and conservation of medicinal plant materials and
genotypes through the establishment and improvement of national nurseries, conduct of
propagation research and field plantation techniques for further extension to end users; and
development of extension and dissemination channels;

iii)    Provision of information services and institutional support focused on the development
and promotion of an adequate legal and regulatory framework covering access to and
management of indigenous medicinal plant knowledge and related information (intellectual
property rights); the compilation and preservation of knowledge about medicinal plants and a
network for managing this information; training and awareness building; monitoring and
evaluation; and

iv)     Creation of    a Project Management Unit to manage these activities and to provide
coordination and technical support of the required services.

This operational strategy and the component design adopted several best international practices of
the day in natural resource, forestry, and biodiversity conservation work. The components also
aimed to use information, knowledge and incentives (economic, social) to modify behavior rather
than using enforcement and sanctions which was also a recognized lesson from experience. The
design also addressed key constraints and mitigate risks (protecting intellectual property rights to
encourage participation and information sharing; generating new technological base for producing
medicinal plant cultivators; and eventually, after the Mid Term Review providing "seed capital" to
co-finance new ventures with villagers). Various agencies of the GOSL were known to have
expertise and experience in such actions as research management, information collection and
management, agronomic extension, so that capacity appeared to be available to implement the
components.

The effectiveness of these project components was, however, predicated on two assumptions
identified in the project appraisal document, and a third which was implied . First it was assumed
that attractive and competitive income sources could be generated as alternatives to simple
traditional harvesting of plant material, and that villagers would abandon (or at least adopt
"sustainable" harvesting of ) plants in the wild once these were available. Second, it was assumed
that the active participation of other agencies, with ongoing programs of their own, could be
mobilized through coordination committees and negotiations of memoranda of understanding in a
timely and managed manner. Finally, it was implicitly assumed that mass awareness campaigns
would provide sufficient "actionable intelligence" for target populations (villagers, ayurvedic
practitioners) to understand the issues and project goals, and respond by modifying their activities.


These assumptions did not entirely hold true. The project did contract for agronomic research and
provide resources to finance studies of alternative income sources, that might eventually lead to
propagation and farm production of medicinal plant material, and staff for social "mobilization" as
well as school information packets to share information when it would be available. However,
domesticating wild plants for on-farm production is a long and unpredictable process and this built
into the project, the additional risks of obtaining and disseminating research results and having
them adopted in a timely manner. The project design might have been improved, if a specific


                                                - 5 -

component/sub-component had been included (independently prepared, financed and managed
against specific outcomes) related to income generation. Even if this might have been beyond the
allowable limits of GEF financing, alternatives could have been sought.

The initial project components remained valid throughout the project, although their content was
modified in response to implementation experience. As mentioned, the geographic scope of the
project was reduced to 4 medical plant conservation areas when the Non-Governmental
Organisation contracted to implement the project in its pre-existing project area, failed to follow
project norms and standards. Most importantly, when it became evident that incentives and
alternative income sources based solely on medicinal plant-related activities did not have sufficient
interest for most villagers, project mangers introduced the concept of village micro planning that
covered a broader set of income and village development objectives that the original "village
action plans", focused exclusively on medicinal plant conservation. This introduced the concept of
"community based development" and self-help approach that included but did not focus
exclusively on medicinal plant and biodiversity concerns. The project also introduced the
provision of "seed funds" to help establish village revolving funds (micro credit funds) in support
of this broader approach.


3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised during implementation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of entry of the project, was considered satisfactory at the time. However, in
retrospect, there were shortcomings that could have been avoided with knowledge available at the
time.

While the project's goals were consistent with international agencies, GEF and Bank priorities,
evidence of GOSL ownership of the project was based mainly on its commitment to and signature
of the CBD. GOSL also indicated early commitment to addressing difficult political issues related
to intellectual property rights for which the project offered a compelling example, but did not
complete legislative and regulatory actions to make this a reality. Moreover, the degree of
ownership within the bodies expected to implement the project was not vigorously probed.
Granted, the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine had been pursuing a program of extending
ayurvedic practices (hospital and clinic development, medicinal plant processing and distribution,
practitioner training) that could have had to be based increasingly on imported plant materials
given the deterioration of domestic supplies, but this was not a fully stated concern of that
ministry. The Ministry of Environment was beginning a process of re-organization and
institutional development, through an Environmental Management Project (also supported with
                                                                              2


International Development Agency (IDA) financing), among others, that would eventually
position it to preserve biodiversity richness including plants with medicinal value, more
effectively, however, it was not ready to assume this responsibility at the time.

This said, preparation was undertaken under a GOSL Steering Committee which drew together
the major stakeholders in the project. It was supported by representation from the World Bank



                                                - 6 -

Mission in Colombo, and strong technical support from the GEF partner agency, IUCN.
Preparation work included the development of a National Biodiversity Framework for Action
conducted through participatory and consultative methods involving a broad set of stakeholders.
The project, as designed, met the standards of the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
which endorsed its goals and potential benefic value of its activities for the rural and poor
populations.

During preparation, GOSL adequately observed the Bank's safeguard policies covering
environmental assessment and social assessment (including identification of special needs of an          3


indigenous population group, the Veddhas). An institutional assessment was conducted,
concentrated on the capacity of the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine (MIM) and the Ministry of
Environment, which identified some potential administrative weaknesses. These were to be
compensated through the recruitment of technical assistance . The project did not conduct
                                                                          4


financial management or procurement assessments following current standards, however, appears
to have made provisions for meeting Bank standards through the recruitment of PMU staff and
the training of the Accountant in Bank procedures prior to grant effectiveness.

The selection of objectives, components and approach to implementation through community
participation would be considered sound and logical by current standards. However, the project
was not fully "ready for implementation", following today's norms. Three basic assumptions
should have been tested more vigorously prior to launching the project. First, an analysis should
have been conducted on a minimum number of alternative income earning activities to fully
appreciate the feasibility of making such promises to villagers (and as mentioned, prepared for as
a separate component/sub-component if required). Second, the assumption that it was sufficient
to raise general awareness of the value of medicinal plants and provide information to motivate
village action was questionable, and attention should have been paid to developing ex ante, a
coherent communications strategy prior to project approval, with training given to field staff on
the methodology and messages to properly represent the project prior to grant effectiveness. Such
a strategy was prepared early in the project, but not adequately implemented. Finally, the support
of other agencies deemed necessary for project success (to the extent that actual operational
support was being sought, rather than simply "coordination" with the objective of maintaining
information flows only) should have been more thoroughly verified ex ante.

Progressively, through implementation, these gaps were filled, however, at a cost of time and
participation in the project.
___________________________________________________________


1/
  The Initial Executive Project Summary for the project (February 14 1995) in fact stated the objective as "to
establish an integrated mechanism for the conservation and sustainable use of medicinal plants". Establishing this
system became in fact the prime focus of most of the project's activities and the core standard for measuring its
effectiveness.
2/
  Environmental Action 1 Project: approved March 27, 1997, US$14.8Mn IDA financing, Project ID-P010513.
 3/
   A separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was not required at that time, however, the basic project
methodology that used village medicinal plant committees and action plans would have met this standard.
4/
  The project relied very extensively on the IUCN for operational and technical support, and obtaining the IUCN
contract was a condition of grant effectiveness.




                                                               - 7 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has had a satisfactory outcome in achieving most of its original objectives, which
remain today are relevant to and hold the potential of contributing more to both GOSL and GEF
(and World Bank) objectives of improving environmental protection and reducing poverty.

The project has succeeded in increasing awareness of the potential for conserving and using
medicinal plants more sustainably, both in the wild and through cultivation and provided
knowledge and tools for expanding efforts in these directions. Moreover, it succeeded in
establishing medicinal plants as a special area of interest with the potential for offering concrete
immediate benefits for stakeholders within the broader concern for forestry and biodiversity
conservation. It has also re-affirmed a view that the conservation and sustainable use of medicinal
plants will be more strongly influenced by factors affecting the conservation and sustainable use of
forestry resources in general than by specific efforts targeted on medicinal plants themselves.

Most significantly, the project presented a successful model for organizing and empowering
villagers to assume responsibility for the well-being of their natural resource base through
participatory Village Project Management Committees and the "micro plans" they developed to
generate economic and social benefits for their communities. At project completion, 39 VPMCs
were established (within 4 CAMCs) in which a majority of village residents were affiliated
directly, which brought forward a gender-integrated leadership corps, which held and managed
funds used for micro credit for self help, and which had established social and environmental
accountability as part of their culture. This has provided a valuable platform for further
community development and environmental protection work.

However, as will be discussed later, further consolidation of this experience would be necessary to
derive the maximum benefit from what has been developed so far and reduce the risks of
extending this experience to other ecosystems. GOSL is envisaging a post-project program to
address these issues.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project produced most of its expected outputs satisfactorily.

Component 1: In situ conservation of medicinal plants (US$2.07 million)
This component completed several mutually supporting activities focused on raising the
prevalence of rational and sustainable medicinal plant use at the village level, and achieved the
following:

a)      Four Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas were established as extensions of other
conservation areas, with the participation of villages found in the geographic area. The original
plan was to include between 10,000-12,000 ha within the new MPCAs, as buffer zones adjacent
existing forest reserves and planned protected areas. In practice however, villagers came to
identify the forest reserves and protected areas, as well as the areas included in village domains



                                                 - 8 -

(Grama Niladariya Divisions (GND)) as being within the project's scope of activity. The scale of
these areas which became the focus of "protection" expanded to about 74,000 ha . This created
                                                                                       1


secondary benefits for the forest reserves and can be considered as having positively influenced
the attitudes of the Forest Department with respect to the concept of community forestry. The
MPCAs were delineated and mapped, and villages were surveyed with the participation of the
professionals, and villagers themselves. A fifth MPCA was launched through social mobilization
and plant inventory work, but was not subsequently developed.

b)      Baseline socioeconomic and ethnobotanical information has been collected for each of
the 4 organized MPCAs, and transferred into field manuals, useful for plant identification, plant
uses, distribution, among other items needed to formulate sustainable use plans. A data base
containing information on location, quantities threats and remedial actions covering about 1,400
species was produced from these surveys. In addition, a selected compendium of information for
the most significant 200 medicinal plants is being finalized (see Component 3). This information
has become the most detailed ecological accounting of medicinal plants in Sri Lanka.

c)      All villages (39) in the four MPCAs developed micro plans for both sustaining the
availability and use of medicinal plants in their boundaries and for continuing to support income
generating activities (see ex situ activities below). These were first conceived as Village Action
Plans, covering principally, an agenda related to zoning, forest protection, medicinal plant
cultivation, transformation and processing of medicinal plants. In the effort to promote
conservation and sustainable use, several activities were particularly successful: including
enrichment planting (up to 40 species were mentioned in surveys of different MPCAs, about half
of which were endangered medicinal species with survival rates of up to 80%); fuel-wood
planting; stream bank protection (between 10-30 km depending on the MPCA); and the
establishment of fire protection lines. Following the Mid Term Review project staff adopted a
modified approach in which villagers became more involved in a participatory planning process
provided information from resource surveys; and guided in a "problem identification problem
solving" methodology to assure village ownership, implementability and accountability in a set of
self-help activities. Financial support was provided from the project to support the Plans and
complement village generated funds. Most of the plans were revised at least once in the final two
years of the project to adjust to achievements and changing conditions . It is also important to
                                                                            2


note that a specific VPMC was organized covering a small but significant indigenous population,
the Veddhas.

d)      CAMCs were expected to produce conservation strategies for the MPCAs and to a certain
degree these were produced. It was intended that these strategies aggregate and synthesize the
content of the VPMCs' micro plans and this was the case. However, it was also expected that
plans at this level would add additional activities that would be executed for the common benefit
and inturn support the micro plans (where economies of scale could be realized, as in marketing,
medicinal plant processing facilities, training, and the provision of technical assistance to villagers
in their own planning and mobilization efforts). The strategies were also expected to include other
GOSL programs that might support village development. Most MPCA plans were deficient in this
latter regard .
             3




                                                  - 9 -

e)      The project produced assessments of the sustainable harvesting levels of 6 most
commonly used medicinal plants, based on professionally conducted growth and yield studies.
This activity began late in the project period, and was modest in scope. However, arrangements
have been made with the Sri Jayawardenapura University to continue the research that should
include the identification of a methodology for including villagers in the process of identifying
plants and monitoring yields.

f)      Extension and education support was successfully provided in each of the MPCAs
through the respective CAMCs, on a limited and uneven basis. Of particular significance was the
development of a model for apprenticeships of interested villagers with recognized master
practitioners of traditional medicine (the "guru-kula" system). The model permitted validation of
the status of the "guru", and allowed villagers to access his/her knowledge while serving in their
own communities, under supervision. GOSL intends to replicate this model.

Component 2: Expansion of Ex situ Cultivation and Conservation (US$0.48 million)
The project assisted the Department of Ayurveda (of MIM) to establish 2 new and rehabilitate 3
existing nurseries for the collection and conservation of germplasm and plant materials, which
succeeded in collecting and protecting about 1,800 species. It also included developing
propagation techniques for about 27 of the most frequently used species as a basis for further
extension to farmers. Research was also concluded and tested in farmer's fields of planting and
cultivation techniques as a basis for further extension to about 1,750 adopting farmers.

Component 3: Information and Institutional Support (US$2.52 million)
The project included support for five sets of activities intended to construct a framework for
longer term sustainability of medicinal plant conservation with the following results:

a)      Legal protection of intellectual property rights associated with medicinal plants was to
be established through the development and enactment of guidelines and regulations governing
access to and the use of ethnobotanical and historic information compiled and transcribed through
the project. The MIM established an Advisory Group on Intellectual Property rights prior to
project approval to lead this effort and advise the project PMU on appropriate steps to establish
these protections. The PMU facilitated the drafting of legislation that would have established the
rights and guidelines for managing and enforcing these rights which was available by the time of
the Mid Term Review of the project. The draft has since been submitted for cabinet review where
decisions were made to transfer responsibility for the legislation out of the MIM and assign it to
other ministries (first the Ministry of Commerce and subsequently the Ministry of Trade) who
have other existing interests in intellectual property. At present, therefore, no definitive action has
been taken to protect, regulate or manage the access to project generated information .   4




b)      Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurvedic Research Institute (BMARI) has completed technical
design of the national medicinal plant data base built on ethnobotanical surveys and information
compiled from other studies and sources. This includes the acquisition and translation of
traditional texts on ola leaf documents. While a protocol for accessing this information has been
prepared and is under the ratification process, a computer-based data base is not operational.




                                                 - 10 -

c)      BMARI has also produced teacher manuals that have allowed 80 schools and up to
27,000 students to obtain basic understanding of ayurvedic practice and medicinal plants, as well
as mass awareness materials.

d)      Monitoring and evaluating the results (impacts) of project activity was designed during
project implementation after about 18 months of project implementation. Consultants concluded 4
rounds of evaluation of 'attitude and perception' surveys, which provided feedback to the PMU
that permitted it to track results relative to a base line. However, these evaluations were not
adequately designed to provide ongoing feedback that could be directly integrated back into
evolving VPMC and CAMC decision-making and development plans. To address this issue, the
PMU introduced a "participatory monitoring and evaluation approach" to accompany the more
dynamic "micro-planning" methodology adopted earlier. VPMCs in all MPCAs continue to
receive training and support in applying this participatory system. The project continued to
employ surveys and personal rapportage as its main instrument for monitoring and evaluating
progress. While appropriate when the principal interest is seen through the social science
perspective, it was not, adequate to provide monitoring and evaluation of physical phenomena
from a physical science perspective. This would have required an experimental design.

e)      The PMU succeeded in establishing annual work plans, managing project resources and
supervising implementation. However, the PMU did not have the flexibility to modify its staffing
and was not therefore empowered to engage a communications expert which might have directed
this activity more effectively.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not estimated


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not estimated


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project did not have an explicit institutional development component although capacity
building was intended in much of the project's activities and was successful in developing
                                                            5


sustainable institutional arrangements. Within communities, VPMCs and their apex CAMCs have
been established and appear to be sustainable. These organizations have been trained and given
legal powers to assume responsibilities for managing micro credit, husbanding community natural
resources and providing support for private income generating initiatives, using community
finances. The project has also provided new capacity for MIM and the Department of Ayurveda
(DOA) to perform their functions effectively, within current budget limits. The project PMU has
been absorbed into a new planning and policy unit within the MIM and is beginning to develop
policies and programs for the strengthening of GOSL support for traditional medicine. Agencies
of the DOA (for example, BMARI) have also been strengthened in their ability to manage
information, support research and educate practitioners and the general public. MIM is also now
in a position to provide consistent support for community groups (VPMCs). In a broader sense,



                                                - 11 -

with the experience of the project, GOSL has been able to establish the concept of a "system" for
supporting traditional medicine. This establishes a basis for further program development and
financing. Lastly, the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Environment has been able to adopt
the model of the VPMCs for its program of community forestry, which is considered to be a cost
effective methodology for forest and biodiversity protection.
______________________
1/
  Kanneliya: 5,700 ha that included the Kanneliya forest reserve managed by the Forest Department and 8
administrative districts (GNDs); Bible: 37,000 ha that included the Niligala reserve, a wildlife reserve, 7 GNDs
and 2 GNDs largely inhabited by indigenous peoples; Naula: 16,300 ha that included the Kumaragala reserve, an
additional proposed reserve, and 11 GNDs; Rajawake: 14,400 ha including the Rajawak Forest, a further reserve
and 10 GNDs.
2/
  Kapila Fernando (June 2004), Lessons from the Introduction and Implementation of Micro Plans, IUCN
3/ibid.
4/
  Ranjith Mahindapala (June 2004), Case Study on Legislation for Safeguarding Traditional Knowledge Related to
the Use of Medicinal Plants, IUCN
5/
  The initial project concept notes for the Technical Review Panel, February 14, 1995 did state that the objective of
the investment project was to "establish an integrated mechanism for the conservation and sustainable use of
medicinal plants"


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was identified at a time of high international interest in biodiversity conservation,
supported by well informed and well resourced international advocacy organizations. This tended
to define the issues and agenda for actions that were not totally in phase with the institutional
capacity, but which were difficult for GOSL to alter substantially. In addition, the project was also
undertaken during a period of considerable national political instability, with five elections called
during the six year implementation period. In the vacuum that was periodically created while
ministries and key personnel changed, international partners took a disproportionate amount of
daily leadership, to the detriment of GOSL's continued ownership of the project.

The high degree of international advocacy of biodiversity conservation in the "global interest" also
fueled national public debate over the prospects of the loss of national control over indigenous
knowledge and bio-resources. The impact of this was to further reduce the perception of national
ownership and national interest in the project and complicated the task of building local and
village partnerships.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Granted that the political climate may have limited the GOSL's options, it still did not take steps
to protect the project from destabilizing changes in ministerial affiliation of the Department of
Ayurveda, or the leadership of the PMU. During the period, the project was affiliated with five
ministries and ministers, 5 Secretaries, 4 Commissioners of Ayurveda and 4 PMU Directors. Each
change required re-introducing the project, implementation delays, and uncertainties over goals
and objectives.



                                                        - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation authorities (the PMU with the ongoing contribution of IUCN) made
extensive technical preparations of the project, including an extensive information and
sensitization campaign with stakeholders in ayurvedic medicine. This worked to counteract to
some degree the criticism of the project as not being fully in the national interest. However, the
agencies did not extend their process to develop an adequate communications program for
reaching regional and local beneficiary groups; reducing the clarity of the project's key messages,
processes for dissemination and obtaining feedback, and evaluation of project effectiveness. Field
staff did not receive explicit training in how to conduct the communications and engagement
process and were, therefore, left largely to improvise. As a result, in many cases, villagers
continued to interpret "conservation" in the use of forestry resources as "prohibition" against their
use, and project activities as a blueprint to be followed, not guidance. These ambiguities were
corrected only at the Mid Term Review. It also led to a slow process in reaching common
understanding with agencies such as the Forestry Department on the basic project concept of
"sustainable use" of resources.


5.4 Costs and financing:
At completion, project costs were within the original estimates for components and categories of
expense. The GEF grant was fully disbursed and accounted for.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Taken as a whole, and in spite of issues of ambivalence regarding the project's ownership during
implementation, the achievements of the project are likely to be sustained. However, this will
occur because several agencies are expected to absorb and maintain various practices and physical
products of the project that are consistent with their own mandates, rather than having a single
institution continue implementing project activities in their entirety. Moreover, sustaining several
of the project's achievements will involve new risks.

1.       MPCA Establishment and Conservation Strategy: The project established the boundaries
of these areas with the agreement of the villagers and developed operational practices for assuring
sustainable use of the natural habitat. In the development of these practices, a core of forestry
officers ("beat" forest officers) began to engage villagers as partners in implementing conservation
practices (fire breaks, stream bank protection, non-destructive use of plants and trees,
abandonment of destructive practices such as culling bean poles, replacement planting), rather
than as intruders. This provided concrete examples for them to appreciate and support community
forestry policy in the Forestry Department and Ministry of Environment and counteracted
negative experiences with earlier attempts to implement the policy. Officials have now begun to
re-apply the practices in other projects. In addition, while MPCAs were identified in the context
of medicinal plants conservation, their relevance to the broader issue of biodiversity conservation
has been recognized and their continued management is consistent with the mandates of the
Forestry Department and Ministry of Environment. As a result, the MPCA concept and the
participation of communities is likely to survive in practice.


                                                    - 13 -

2.      CAMCs and VPMCs: While these organizations were initiated with the purpose of
promoting the sustainable use of forest resources with a focus on medicinal plant production and
harvesting, they have evolved into community development organizations. Their functions have
expanded to include the management of small credit operations for their members, production and
processing, marketing of medicinal plants, and they are being given legal status as non-profit
organizations. Business plans for the CAMCs show that they can be, under reasonably
conservative assumptions, self sustaining financially. Leadership of the new CAMCs has received
training in business management and shows considerable entrepreneurship and commitment. In
addition, a vehicle has been established to provide a forum for information sharing, organizing
further refresher training, implementing joint operations that would benefit from scale. As a result,
subject to the usual risks of failure that face small businesses, the CAMC/VPMC structure should
be sustainable as an expression of community self help. Unfortunately, this development also
creates the risk that in the effort to develop VPMCs/CAMCs economically and socially, the
attention to conservation and sustainable use of natural resources would be eclipsed by priorities
considered to be more pressing. Managing this risk will require that supporting authorities (such
as MIM through its new strategy unit: see Transition Arrangements below) continue to emphasize
the need to correctly align attention to the sustained use of natural resources with the survival and
development of traditional medicine.

3.      Research on harvest sustainability, plant propagation, field production guidelines, and
dissemination of results: The project initiated research in a number of areas that support the
further interests of ayurvedic medicine, which would also have beneficial effects for forest
conservation and sustainable use. Most of this work was implemented through contracts with
centers of excellence and/or other sources of expertise. These activities fall within the
organizational mandate of the BMARI which has taken steps to assume responsibility for
continuing the supervision of these actions. Subject to the availability of government budget and
other support, financing these activities should be sustainable. The MIM/DOA is formulating a
program for the integration of the activities into mainstream work programs.

4.      Nurseries and plant collections: Subject to annual budget allocations for the
DOA/BMARI, the BMARI is expected to continue to maintain these collections as part of its
research agenda.

5.      Databases, information network, awareness and education: BMARI has been responsible
for preparing and maintaining databases built on social surveys and ethnobotanical surveys
conducted in the MPCAs. It has developed the expertise in managing the Information Technology
aspects of the databases, and appears prepared to continue operating the systems.

6.      National Policy: The Ministry of Indigenous Medicine has completed a new "National
Policy on Sri Lanka Systems of Indigenous Medicine" and a proposed action plan to continue the
initiatives of the project under their management. This reflects a significant step in raising the level
of attention that GOSL is preparing to give to the sector and is complementing the other
mainstream contributors to national health and poverty reduction efforts (see Transition
Arrangements below).



                                                 - 14 -

Most importantly, however, the project developed a sense of empowerment and self help in the
villages that fell within the VPMCs and CAMCs. New sources of leadership have emerged, with
a strong representation of women in key positions, that is younger and more forward looking than
traditional leadership. Among these newly empowered peoples has been a key indigenous
population, the Vedda people, who formed their own VPMC and participated fully in the project.
As has been experienced in other countries, the introduction of a locally managed and accountable
credit system was a major factor creating this power. People have also experienced exercising
institutionalized and collective control and discipline in the use of forest resources over other
village members and outsiders. Collectively therefore, this has represented a movement and in a
sense, a change in village culture, all be it on a small scale. It is highly likely that this culture shift
will be sustained and spread.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ministry of Environment which oversees the Forestry Department is implementing
community forestry following the model developed in the project and is preparing additional
applications.

In addition to incorporating selected project activities into the regular work programs of the
BMARI, the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine has decided to create an additional unit to
coordinate and further develop its strategic role of stewardship and support for the practice of
ayurvedic medicine. At present the MIM is largely an administrative organ that has not followed a
sectoral and goal driven approach to the practice. The formulation of a national policy and action
plan (see Sustainability, above) and the formation of a highly placed unit to develop and
implement it in an operational manner would correct this shortcoming. By adopting a strategic
approach to developing the traditional medicine sector, MIM would then position itself to
formulate a development and investment program that could attract international support. Options
that might be considered in such a plan are outlined in Annex 9.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank staff performance through the lending cycle appears to have been generally satisfactory
although compromised in two respects.

The project was identified during the mid 1990s which was a period of high international interest
in biodiversity protection and conservation. During this period, the first international Convention
on Biological Diversity was being finalized and GOSL was a signatory. Interest in species
conservation and protection was also a focus of GEF, into which category medicinal plants were
of special concern in south Asian countries. The value of Sri Lanka's biodiversity was considered
to be of global value. However, the Bank appreciated that GOSL required further strategic
thinking about biodiversity conservation prior to undertaking an investment project, and identified
the project as the second of two activities; the first being the development of a broad based
biodiversity action plan, which was completed in the early years of the project. The government


                                                  - 15 -

agency charged with environmental protection, the Central Environmental Authority was only
beginning to develop new relationships with an embryonic Environment Ministry and a separate
IDA project to support a broad environmental action agenda was just being identified and
prepared and was not in a position to undertake a field-based project (this was evident when
GOSL itself reduced the scope of the Environment Action 1 Project to cover mainly institutional
development). Moreover, while some institutions related to ayurvedic medicine had ongoing
activities related to plant identification, propagation and production, and anecdotal evidence
suggested that the domestically available stock of medicinal plants was shrinking, the sustainable
availability of plant material per se does not appear to have been appreciated by authorities as the
principle threat to the practice of ayurvedic medicine. None-the-less, the Bank saw the global
value of a biodiversity project with medicinal plants as its focus and pursued this. In so doing,
granted that there were potential benefits, the Bank may have taken excessive level of ownership
of a project.

Project technical preparation was completed satisfactorily, with adequate attention to stakeholder
inclusion at the national level, largely through the efforts of IUCN. However, the preparation did
not take full account of the processes that would be required to build local ownership and
community participation in establishing medicinal plant conservation areas (the key element of
project implementation design) and did not prepare adequate operations manuals and training of
field staff on the approaches and messages that would facilitate the building process. In fact, this
activity was delayed for about 1 year following effectiveness. This led to confusion among project
field staff and village participants on the goals of the project, the roles and responsibilities of local
associations and village expectations, that was corrected only following the Mid Term Review.
The appraisal process also satisfactorily evaluated technical matters, identifying risks and
proposing mitigation steps and completing requisite technical analyses, appropriate to a
biodiversity protection project. However, while GOSL undertook steps to establish an "ownership
framework" (establishing a project Steering Committee, a PMU in the Ministry of Indigenous
Medicine) and the appraisal identified the needs for strong technical assistance inputs and links to
external technical institutions as a requisite risk mitigation measure, the Bank accepted that the
project may not have adequate internal technical capacity and face low ownership by the
designated implementation authority.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was strongly supported by the staff of the Colombo office and was highly
proactive in assisting in resolving implementation problems, many resulting from breaks on GOSL
leadership of the PMU. The Bank took an active role in supporting the daily operation of the
PMU, assuring liaison between the PMU, IUCN, MIM, as well as ensuring that financial
management and procurement matters were dealt in an effective and timely manner. The Bank
also maintained an acceptable level of realism of issues and solutions in its written assessments
(although, unfortunately, not its formal reporting). These included the eventual reduction in the
geographic scope of the project when evidence was clear that project objectives were at risk in
one of the project areas, and support for changing the operating methods of field staff,
introduction of more genuinely participatory approaches to villagers, and placing the interest in
medicinal plants in a broader context of village self help, following the Mid Term Review.



                                                 - 16 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory, based on its efforts to support and
guide GOSL through the supervision of a project, and overcome flaws in ownership and the
design of its management arrangements once the decision was taken to proceed.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOSL established a multi-agency Steering Committee early in the preparation process to facilitate
an awareness-building and consultative process concerning the project. This Committee continued
to meet periodically as an advisory group, throughout the implementation period. During the
preparation period, however, institutions charged with environmental issues were undergoing
reorganization and the Department of Ayurveda lacked technical expertise in the area of
biodiversity. As a result, GOSL relied heavily on the GEF international partner, IUCN to frame
and direct project preparation, in addition to providing technical expertise to complete studies.
While understandable and necessary under the circumstances, this later proved to be
unsatisfactory as it distanced most of the GOSL agencies that would be expected to participate in
implementing the project from first hand direction of the project's content and contributed to
uncertain ownership throughout implementation. Later intensive efforts to inform agencies and
stakeholders of the project's content and implementation arrangements were laudable, however,
could not overcome the lack of felt-ownership had the operation been generated within the
country.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOSL respected all requirements of the Grant Agreement, however, missed opportunities to
become fully engaged in the project owing to frequent changes (5 over the project period) in
ministerial affiliation of the Department of Ayurveda and subsequent changes in Commissioner
(5). This also led to 4 changes in project director. Under these circumstances it proved difficult
for GOSL to absorb project activities and provide a strategic sense to the significance of
biodiversity conservation for the traditional medicine practice. It was slow in taking important
decisions in areas related to the protection of intellectual property and provided little focused
attention. Finally, GOSL did obtain an extension of the project's closing date to permit it to
complete vital parts of the program. However, this opportunity was also compromised by a
change in political leadership and subsequent re-evaluation of the basic strategy of the project.
Therefore, while understandable, the results from the project's perspective are unsatisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project management unit was by design small in number of employees and targeted its
functions on facilitation, monitoring and managing the actions of other actors. In spite of four
changes in Director, it managed project implementation tasks following acceptable standards of
financial management and procurement, with good governance. It was also able to mount a
vigorous and successful defense against critics, of its position on intellectual property rights
protection. However, the PMU relied heavily on the international partner agency, IUCN, in most
decisions affecting the technical outcome of the project. This reliance may have been unavoidable


                                               - 17 -

considering the frequent changes in senior staff and ministerial affiliations, and under other
circumstances would have been an unsatisfactory arrangement. However, with limitations, it
proved to be a satisfactory decision considering the technical demands of the project, even though
the PMU did not itself have technical capacity that could be absorbed by the MIM to support
follow-on activity.

In terms of financial management and procurement, implementation issues were identified early
and rectified appropriately and in a timely manner. The PMU, field staff and community members
made use of all potential opportunities under the project to improve their capacity and
competence in financial management and core staff of the PMU were trained in procurement
aspects. Legal covenants related to financial management were complied with. Audits of project
expenditures were carried out in a timely manner and there are no major pending audit issues. No
significant procurement issue arose in the course of the project.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The circumstances of the day, limited the options available to GOSL throughout the periods of
identification, preparation and implementation of the project. Frequent elections and subsequent
changes in lines of authority over the traditional medicine sector may have deprived GOSL of
development of a coherent strategy for the sector into which a project of this type may have been
placed. However, as a matter of choice, GOSL permitted these changes to affect the project,
even in its last year of implementation, at a basic technical level (the leadership of the PMU and
technical agencies) which might have been avoided. Thus, its performance during the project is
considered to have been largely unsatisfactory. None-the-less, in the final project year GOSL has
shown renewed strategic interest in the project's contributions to both health, and biodiversity
protection, and the opportunity for further development of these areas.


8. Lessons Learned

The Sri Lanka Medicinal Plant Conservation and Sustainable Use Project is considered to have
been the first of its kind to be undertaken on this scale and with its stated objectives and
implementation strategy, focusing directly on the conservation and sustainable use of non-timber
species of forest plants. Since the project was launched, at least four additional projects         1


(including a major component in a general biodiversity project) have addressed the same topic,
following roughly the same methodology. In this sense, the overarching lesson of the project has
been that this area of traditional medicine and indigenous knowledge in general, could be
supported through a disciplined and strategic manner as is the case with other areas typically
included in "projects". The project has served as a learning exercise for national project staff from
other countries under the World Bank's Indigenous Knowledge Development Program, which
although based largely in the Africa Region, has begun to influence similar activity in other
regions.

Additional lessons can be generated from the project in support of further development of
ayurvedic medicine and medicinal plant conservation, as well as general practice of
community-driven development. Moreover, the project experience re-enforces lessons affecting



                                               - 18 -

the broader issues of project design and implementation.

a. Lessons Specific to the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Operations.
The project would, with additional work, provide models for the further development of
traditional medicine and the sustainable use of medicinal plants as one of its key inputs. It may
also contribute to the design of self help rural development and poverty alleviation programs,
operating through community driven initiatives. Among the experiences that could be examined in
greater detail are: collecting and managing traditional knowledge; protecting intellectual property
rights; development of practices for the sustainable use of plants in the wild (in situ), and
propagation and production systems (ex situ); supporting apprenticeship in indigenous medicine;
and basic elements in pursuing community participation and self help ( organization of community
groups, management of micro credit, use of communications, and managing micro planning
processes). Further details are outlined in Annex 8.

b. Lessons with Broader Application
The experiences of the project highlighted and supported the validity of best practices derived
from many previous operations, as well as raising new issues.

The project, through its concept development, illustrates the difficulty in establishing national
applications of legitimate international/global concerns. The project was identified at a moment
of heightened international awareness and concern for biodiversity protection and well informed
international agencies were strong advocates of national action to conserve national biodiversity
resources. These agencies were also available to assist governments who wished to use them, to
formulate and implement the required programs. However, while national sentiments may have
favored such actions, the national development agenda and institutional structures within the
GOSL may not have been fully prepared to absorb such initiatives. As a result, the project faced
difficulty in generating and maintaining strong GOSL commitment throughout implementation,
relying on a small specialized PMU loosely affiliated to a ministry, heavily dependant on an
international agency for technical and implementation support. It also brought forward political
issues that GOSL may not have been fully prepared to address (protection of intellectual property
rights). Clearly, by the completion of the project, various GOSL institutions appear to have
internalized selected results of the project. However, this may not always be possible. A similar
risk continues to exist in other areas of global concern (controlling HIV/AIDS, mitigating global
warming, achieving gender equality, among others). In such areas of global concern, international
partners themselves need to be sensitive to host country preparedness to respond.

Much of the record of scientific achievement is anecdotal and difficult to verify as a basis for
further application. The project was concerned both with achieving a level of protection and
sustainable use of biodiversity resources (medicinal plants) and also in establishing new
institutional and behavioral relationships to sustain biodiversity protection and traditional
medicine. While largely successful in monitoring and evaluating progress in institutional
development (from a social science perspective), the project did not create a sound science-driven
monitoring and evaluation system. Future operations that have expectations for improvements in
biological science should have professionally designed monitoring and evaluation systems based
on experimental design, rather than depending on a social science design.




                                               - 19 -

The project illustrates the need for careful synchronization of project goals with the mandates
and agendas of implementing agencies. Having decided at the level of the government to
proceed with project, there remained uncertainty about the engagement of the institutions that
would assume responsibility for it. Assigning responsibility for a project that was essentially one
of biodiversity, to an agency whose central mandate was directed towards a health concern, may
have been deemed necessary, considering weaknesses in the Environment Ministry at the time,
and the urgency of proceeding. However, the decision made it difficult to build ownership by the
responsible agency and raised the subsequent cost of coordination and inter-agency collaboration,
that slowed implementation.

Projects with the goal of changing behavior need clear and pre-planned communications
strategies. While every project should have a strategy for communication with its stakeholders,
those whose basic operating premise is to change behavior should place "communications" at the
center of their design. The project suffered from lack of such a strategy both in managing early
criticism of its objectives as serving international bio-prospecting, and subsequently in promoting
the project in villages. Clearly, project staff were conscientious in consulting stakeholders during
preparation in an attempt to build understanding. In addition, staff were given extensive briefings
and documentation concerning the project. However, the communications effort was not a
managed process in which messages were prepared, staff trained, feedback loops established, and
real-time corrections of erroneous information provided. As a result, the cost in time and effort in
establishing the required levels of participation in villages was elevated. In a similar vein, while
project field staff were well informed, they were not provided with adequate operational guidance
on being effective "community mobilizers" (and subsequently, community development officers).
Projects based on outreach and interaction with villagers and civil society in general (health
outreach, agriculture extension, community development to name a few) should provide specific
training of staff in these requisite skills, monitor their performance and provide real-time
correction of errors.

The project also provided positive reinforcement of several best practices The project
management team began to plan for the sustainable follow-on of project activities early in the
implementation period. Following the Mid Term Review, work began on a strategy for turning
project activities over to village organizations and institutionalize findings. This had the beneficial
effect of raising sustainability and the ownership of the project's results (even if the ownership of
the project was weak) to the level of a project "outcome".                 In addition, recognizing the
circumstances that led to the decision to formulate a PMU within the Ministry of Indigenous
Medicine, the implementation strategy of the PMU was a good example of minimizing "in-house"
functions to the minimum necessary to provide management and accountability, and maximize
reliance on contractors for specialized and technical inputs. This applied to the use of IUCN who
engaged a large body of short term and long term Sri Lankan experts for most technical work,
and a contract system for obtaining research results. Overall, the PMU appears to have managed
the risk that in such a strategy, contractors may assume managerial responsibilities.
___________________________
1/
  Ethiopia - Conservation and Sustainable use of Medicinal Plants, Ghana - Northern Savannah Biodiversity
Project, Jordan - Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project, Mongolia - Conservation and Sustainable
Use of Medicinal Plants; each has drawn on GEF support for their biodiversity aspects of developing traditional
medicine and traditional knowledge.



                                                   - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 21 -

- 22 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable


10. Additional Information

The project has produced a valuable set of analyses and evaluations that are available through the
World Bank Office, Colombo; IUCN, and the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine, which are
indicated in Annex 7.




                                             - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
DO1.                                             Village Action Plans being implemented: 39 Village Action Plans being implemented: 39
a) Number of village action plans being                                                     (100%)
implemented where harvest of medicinal
plants from the wild within permissible limits.



DO2.                                             Number of species: 50                      Number of species 25 (50%)
a) Number of medicinal plants for which
cost-effective propagation and cultivation
techniques are available.




b) Number and diversity of medicinal plants      Number of species: 1,850                   Number of species: 1,455 (79%)
species propagated and grown in
government nurseries.



c) Number of farmers using propagation and Number of farmers: 1,750                         Number of farmers: 1,680 (96%)
agronomic information generated through the
project.



DO3.                                             Guidelines Produced : 1                    Guidelines were developed and partially
a) Guidelines developed and implemented                                                     implemented
for protecting traditional knowledge and plant
resources related to the project.



b) New recommendations for strengthening         Recommendations (set): 1                   Draft legislation has been developed and is
legislation and            regulations related to                                           being reviewed by GOSL for potential future
conservation and use of medicinal plants.                                                   enactment



c) National database developed.                  Database: 1                                Database 1, containing information on over
                                                                                            1,000 species

d) Number of schools and students exposed Schools: 75 (25,000 students)                     Schools: 80 (27,000 students) - (108%)
to educational programs.



e) Number of persons with skills related to      Persons: 2,200                             Persons: 3,146 (143%
medicinal plant conservation and use


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                                   - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component                                     US$ million   US$ million
Expansion of In-situ Conservation                                          2.07            1.12            54
Expansion of Ex-situ Cultivation and Conservation                          0.46            0.95           206
Information and Institutional Support                                      2.54            3.30           129

Total Baseline Cost                                                        5.07            5.37
                             Total Project Costs                           5.07            5.37
                    Total Financing Required                               5.07            5.37
Source: Borrower. All costs include the Physical and Price Contingencies

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  1
                                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                  ICB                 NCB                   2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                  0.00                0.00             0.18         0.00        0.18
                                         (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.15)         (0.00)     (0.15)
2. Goods                                  0.00                0.00             0.90         0.40        1.30
                                         (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.86)         (0.00)     (0.86)
3. Services                               0.00                0.00             3.03         0.03        3.06
TA, Training, Studies &                  (0.00)               (0.00)         (3.03)         (0.00)     (3.03)
Services*
4. Miscellaneous (Labour,                 0.00                0.00             0.52         0.01        0.53
Project Management
Personnel, Staff
Allowances
                                         (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.52)         (0.00)     (0.52)
   Total                                  0.00                0.00             4.63         0.44        5.07
                                         (0.00)               (0.00)         (4.56)         (0.00)     (4.56)
Source: Project Appraisal Document, Page 51, Annex 6




                                                           - 25 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          1
                                                                Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                   ICB                 NCB                      2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                     Other
   1. Works                                    0.00                 0.23               0.05               0.00             0.28
                                               (0.00)              (0.19)             (0.04)             (0.00)            (0.23)
   2. Goods                                    0.00                 0.14               0.39               0.04             0.57
                                               (0.00)              (0.10)             (0.29)             (0.00)            (0.39)
   3. Services                                 0.00                 0.10               3.50               0.24             3.84
   TA, Training, Studies &                     (0.00)              (0.10)             (3.50)               ()              (3.60)
   Services*
   4. Miscellaneous (Labour,                   0.00                 0.00               0.55               0.17             0.72
   Project Management
   Personnel, Staff
   Allowances
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.34)             (0.00)            (0.34)
       Total                                   0.00                 0.47               4.49               0.45             5.41
                                               (0.00)              (0.39)             (4.17)             (0.00)            (4.56)
   Source: Borrower
   Notes:
   Figures include taxes and duties. Figures rounded to the nearest US$100,000;
   N.B.F: Non Bank Financed; "Other": Also includes (in addition to the definition below) sole source procurement
   Civil Works: 5 MPCA Buildings, 2 New Medicinal Plant Gardens, Development of 3 existing Nurseries, Small Community
   Buildings
   Goods: Vehicles, Computer Database Equipment, Machinery for Drug production Centres, Drugs and Resource Materials
   Services: TA, Training, Studies & Services [ 1) Institutional Development, 2) Local Training, 3) Development of Educational
   Materials, 4) Specialized External Training, 5) Studies/Research/Service Contracts 6) Miscellaneous Services]
   The Source of Financing is GEF: however as there is no provision to indicate this in Foot Note 1, we have chosen the
   option of "Bank Loan"
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                      Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank           Govt.         CoF.        Bank          Govt.         CoF.      Bank      Govt.  CoF.
Expansion of In-situ              2.07          0.00                      1.12           0.00                   54.1       0.0
Conservation
Expansion of Ex-situ              0.45          0.01                      0.94           0.01                   208.9     100.0
Cultivation and
Conservation
Information and                   2.05          0.49                      2.51           0.79                   122.4     161.2
Institutional Support
Total                             4.57          0.50                      4.57           0.80                   100.0     160.0

   Source: Borrower
   The Source of Financing is GEF; as there is no provision to indicate this in the columns above, we have chosen the
   option of "Bank"




                                                                 - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic analysis was not conducted at project completion




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1995                    10     Legal Counsel (1); Social
                                             Scientist (1); Consultant
                                             Ethnobotanist (1); Consultant
                                             Forester/Conservation Specialist
                                             (1); Senior Agriculturists (1),
                                             Snr. Envt Specialist (1);
                                             Environmental Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant Economist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September 1997          10     Legal Counsel (1); Social
                                             Scientist (1); Consultant
                                             Ethnobotanist (1);
                                             Consultant
                                             Forester/Conservation
                                             Specialist (1); Senior
                                             Agriculturists (1), Snr. Envt
                                             Specialist (1);
                                             Environmental Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant Economist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1)

 Supervision
                                             As the Project was Co-Task
                                             Managed from the Colombo
                                             Office, supervision was
                                             conducted on a continuous
                                             basis. The undermentioned
                                             Supervision Missions were
                                             "formal" missions conducted
                                             by the Team.
              04/08/1998                2    Envt. Specialist/Co-TTL (1);          S               S
                                             Envt. Engineer (1)
              10/08/1998                3    Snr. Agriculturist/TTL (1), Snr.      S               S
                                             Envt Specialist/Co-TTL (1);
                                             Envt. Engineer (1)
              04/23/1999                4    Snr. Envt Specialist/Co-TTL (1);      S               S
                                             Envt. Engineer (1); Operations
                                             Assistant (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1)
              10/23/1999                6    Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);         S               S
                                             Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);



                                              - 28 -

                      Participatory Specialist (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1)
      04/04/2000    5 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Participatory Specialist (1);
                      Program Assistant (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1)
      10/18/2000    7 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Forest Ecologist (1);
                      Participatory Specialist (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1)
      02/03/2001    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1)
      07/01/2001    5 Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);         S    S
                      Operations Analyst (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1);
                      Consultant Sociologist (1)
      03/19/2002    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Social Development Specialist
                      (1); Operations Analyst (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1)
      11/19/2002    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1)
      03/06/2003    6 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Social Development Specialist
                      (1); Operations Analyst (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Financial Mgmnt. Specialist (1)
      08/23/2003    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1)

ICR
      03/06/2004    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL           S    S
                      (1); Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL
                      (1); Operations Analyst (1)
      06/06/2004    3 Snr. Envt Specialist/TTL (1);      S    S
                      Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1)
      08/01/2004    3 Envt. Engineer/Co-TTL (1);
                      Operations Analyst (1); ICR-
                      Consultant (1)




                      - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  60.4                           144.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       28.1                            61.9
  Supervision                               127.97                          230.57
  ICR                                             9                           30.0
  Total                                     225.47                          467.37
Source: (a) 1994-1999: COSRR20 Reports (b) 2000 - 2004: SAP Project Detail Reports




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Ministry of Indigenous Medicine
(1) A National Strategy to Continue the Initiatives of the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal
Plants Project, October 2004
(2) National Policy on Sri Lankan Systems of Indigenous Medicine, Draft, November 15, 2004

World Bank Documents
(1) Mission Aide Memoirs
(2) Project Appraisal Document



Studies Financed under the Project

                  Name of Report                              Author                     Date
 1     An Investment Proposal for MPCP:         IUCN Sri Lanka                     Feb, 1997
       Supplementary Information for the
       Investment Proposal of December 1996:
       Annexures
 2     Medicinal Plants Conservation Areas      IUCN Sri Lanka                     March, 1997
       Program: A socio-economic Study of
       the proposed villages, program
       implementation and potential impact
 3     Project Appraisal Report: Conservation   World Bank                         November, 1997
       and Sustainable Use of Medicinal
       pants; Report 17160-CE
 4     Training on Participatory Baseline       Sejal Worah, IUCN                  December 1998
       Survey Design
5    Annual Reports of the CSUMPP              PMU/MIM                            1999, 2000, 2001
6    Medicinal Plant Resource Inventory         Jeremy Russel-Smith, IUCN          June 1999,
                                                                                   2000, 2001
 7     Impact Monitoring Reports: 1, 2, 3, 4    Environment and Management         2000, 2001,
                                                Lanka (Pvt) Ltd                    2002
 8     Operational Support to the               William Milliken, IUCN             1999, 2000,
       Ethnobotanical Activities                                                   2001, 2003
 9     Review of Socio-Economic Surveys and     Sejal Worah, IUCN                  June 1999
       Community Mobilization
 10    Review, Assessment and Analysis of       Sejal Worah, IUCN                  September 1999
       Socio-Economic Surveys and Village
       Project Management Committees
 11    Medicinal Plants - Processing and        M K Raina, IUCN                    December 1999
       Quality Control
 12    Communication Strategy                   IUCN Sri Lanka                     July, 2000
13   Training needs assessment and Training     IUCN Sri Lanka                     Feb, 2000
     Plan
 14    Village Action Plan Development          Sejal Worah, IUCN                  May 2000
 15    Report of the Mid Term Review based      Organised by IUCN and              July and August
       on Community Based Assessments in        Facilitated by IPID                2000
       Rajawake and Naula Conservation
       Areas (28 & 30, July 2000) and
       Assessment by Secondary Level Project



                                                    - 33 -

    Stakeholders (3rd & 4th Aug 2000)
16  Legal Framework to Safeguard             Anandalal Nanayakkara, IUCN       October, 2000
    Traditional Knowledge Relating to the
    Use of Medicinal Plants
17  Marketing of Medicinal Plants            Lakshman J K Hettiaratchi, IUCN  November, 2000
18 Mid Term Evaluation Report               PMU Sri Lanka, World Bank         November 2000
19  Revised Conceptual Framework for         Environment and Management        November, 2000
    Monitoring and Evaluation of Impacts     Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
    of the CSUMPP
20 Farming Systems Research on Selected      Dr D K N G Pushpakumara, Dr B     2001
   Medicinal plants at Naula                 Marambe, Prof K G A
                                             Goonasekara, Dr G Hitinayaka, dr
                                             S P Nissanka/University of
                                             Peradeniya
21 Review of Medicinal Plants Processing and M K Raina, IUCN                   2001
   Review of Drug Manufacturing of the Sri
   Lanka Ayurvedic Drug Cooperation
22  Medicinal Plants  Processing and        M K Raina, IUCN                   August, 2001
    Quality Control
23  Statistics on the National Demand for    Mr Nimal Abeywardana & L J K      September, 2001
    Medicinal Plants                         Hettiaratchi, IUCN
24  Eco-tourism in the Medicinal Plants      Mr N U Yasapala, IUCN             September, 2001
    Conservation Areas
25  Ayurveda in Social Studies: Teachers     National Institute of Education   2002
    handbook
26  Development of Cost  Effective          Prof. Ranjith Senaratne, Dr G A   2002
    Propagation Techniques and Nursery       Sayathilake, Dr S Subasinghe, D L
    Practices for Masbedda, Rat Handun,      C Kumari, Dr S P
    Wal Kahambiliya, Elabatu and             Sapumohotti/University of Ruhuna
    Welmadata
27  Development of Propagation               L S S Pathiratna, Priyani         2002
    Techniques and Nursery Practices for     Senevirathne/ Industrial
    Nil Awariya (indigofera tinctoria);      Technology Institute
    Katuwelbatu (Solanum verginianum);
    Polpala (Aerva lanata)
28 Investigation of Propagation Techniques   Dr L S R Arambewela, Dr Y M H     2002
   and Nursery Practices for Amukkara        B Yapabandara, Dr N Ediriweera,
   (Withania somnifera                       Dr N R de Silva/Industrial
                                             Technology Institute
29 Investigation of Propagation Techniques   Dr L S R Arambewela, Dr Y M H     2002
   and Nursery Practices for Bim Kohomba     B Yapabandara, Dr N Ediriweera,
   (Munronia pinnata); Ekaweriya (Rauvolfia Dr N R de Silva/ Industrial
   serpentina), Kotala Himbutu (Salacia      Technology Institute
   reticulata) and Rat Nitul (Plumbago
   indica); Santalum album, Coscinium
   fenestratum, Piper longum, and
   Hemidesmus indicus
30  Thalpatha Osumahima- Volume I; II;III    BMARI                             2002
31  Institutional Assessment of Village      A P Dainis, IUCN                  January 2002
    Project Management Committees
    (VPMCs) and Conservation Area
    Management Committee (CAMCs) 



                                                - 34 -

32  Compendium of Medicinal Plants -        BMARI                             2002-2003
    Volume I, II, III, IV
33 EBS Field Manuals; Volumes 1,2,3,4       BMARI                             2002-2004
34  Management Plans for Bibile (2003)      A N S Baminiyawatta, IUCN         2002, 2003
    and Kanneliya (2002)
35  Acclimatization and Field               University of Sri Jayawardanapura 2003
    establishment of Munronia pinnata
    propagated trough tissue culture,
36  Case Study on the Learning Experience   Mallika R Samasanayaka and        2003
    from the Implementation Activities at   Professor Kamal Karunayake with
    Ritigala                                the IPID Study Team
37  Commercial Scale Production of          S Subasinghe,K K I U Aruna        2003
    Masbedda (Gymnema sylvestre) and        Kumara, D L C                     2003
    Rat Handun (Pterocarpus santalinus)     Kumari/University of Ruhuna
38  Development of Intercropping Practices  L S S Pathirathne/Rubber          2003
    for Five Medicinal Plants (Nil Awariya, Research Institute
    Katuwelbatu, Polpala, Rat Nitul and
    Thippili) - under Rubber
39  Establishing of a Participatory         Mallika R. Samaranayaka, IUCN     January, 2003
    Monitoring and Evaluation System for
    Field Level Implementation
40  Participatory Monitoring and            Mallika Samaranayake/IPID,        January 2003
    Evaluation System for Field Level       IUCN
    Implementation
41  Strategy for Transferring Project       A P Dainis, IUCN                  February, 2003
    Responsibilities Community Based
    Organizations (VPMCs/CAMCs)
42  Legal Framework to Safeguard            D M Karunarathne, IUCN            March, 2003
    Traditional Knowledge Relating to the
    Use of the Medicinal Plants
43  Impact Evaluation Report                Environment and Management        July 2003
                                            Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
44  Techno-guides on Cultivation of        Mervyn Joseph/IUCN, Sandya        2004
    Medicinal Plants Vol I, II             Abeysekara/PMU
45  Back-stopping Support Program on        Mallika Samaranayake/IPID,        April 2004
    Participatory Monitoring and            IUCN
    Evaluation
46  4 Case Studies on best practices        Project Officers, PMU             June 2004
    including participatory approaches
47  Assessment of Project Impact on the     Sisira Kumarasiri, IUCN           June 2004
    Indigenous Community of Ratugala 
    Bibile MPCA
48 Case Study on the Contract Research      Ranjith Mahindapala, IUCN         June 2004
   Program of the CSUMPP
49 Case Study on the Date Base in the       Ranjith Mahindapala, IUCN         June, 2004
   CSUMPP
50  Case Study on the Legislation for       Ranjith Mahindapala, IUCN         June 2004
    Safeguarding Traditional Knowledge
    Related to the Use of Medicinal Plants
    (Activity of the CSUMPP)
51  Development of a Participatory          Peter Rezel, IUCN                 June 2004
    Business Plan to Establish Medicinal



                                                - 35 -

   Plants and Non-Timber forest
   Product-based Community Enterprises
   in the Naula, Rajawaka and Kanneliya
   MPCAs
52 Institutionalization of VPMCs/CAMCs     S W K J Samaranayake/IPID,        June 2004
                                           IUCN
53 Lessons from the Introduction and       Kapila Fernando, IUCN             June 2004
   Implementation of Micro Plans
54 Collection & Establishment of           D S A Wijesundara, M M D J        July, 2004
   Germplasm of Important (Endemic,        Senartne, C Jayasinghe/Royal
   rare, threatened) Medicinal Plants in   Botanical Gardens, Peradeniya
   Sri Lanka- Ganewatta Medicinal Plants
   Garden
55 Development of Agronomic Practices      K U Tennakoon, I A U N            July, 2004
   for Sudu Handun (Santalum album)        Gunatillake, C V S Guntillake, W
                                           A D P Wanigasundara, H P
                                           Rathnasiri/University of
                                           Peradeniya
56 Development of Propagation              Prof I A U N Gunatillake, Prof C  July, 2004
   Techniques for Six Medicinal Plants     V S Gunatillake, Dr K U
   Species (Hingurupiyali, Kalanduru,      Tennakoon, Prof M D
   Kiribadu, Sassanda, Ela Pitawakka, and  Dassanayake, Prof W A D P
   Hathawariya); Senehekola (Cassia        Wanigasundara/University of
   senna), Lanka Thuwarala (Velleriana     Peradeniya
   mooni), andAsamodagam
   (rachyspermum roxburghianum )
57 Medicinal Plants Project at Buttala    Janakie Abeywardene/Sri Lanka     July, 2004
   Adaptive Research Trial                 Freedom Campaign Board
58 Testing of Economically important       L S S Pathiratna/Rubber Research  July, 2004
   Medicinal Plants species as intercrops  Institute
   with Rubber (Hevea) under smallholder
   conditions
59 Sustainability Studies on Selected      IUCN Sri Lanka                    July, 2004
   Medicinal Plants Species in Bibile,
   Kanneliya, Rajawaka and Naula
   MPCAs
60 Assessment of Socio-Economic Impact     Mallika Samaranayke/IPID, IUCN    August 2004
61 Technological Enhancement and           Jaanaki Gooneratne/IUCN           August 2004
   Support for CSUMPP




                                              - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Agenda for Additional Learning and Knowledge Sharing

The Sri Lanka Medicinal Plant Conservation and Sustainable Use Project is considered to have
been the first of its kind to be undertaken through the World Bank, focusing directly on the
conservation and sustainable use of non-timber species of forest plants. Since the project was
launched, at least four other projects (including a major component in a biodiversity project) have
addressed the same topic following its methodology. However, basic systemic knowledge is
required in support of such projects.

This project has developed valuable experience which would contribute to support the further
development of traditional medicine and the sustainable use of medicinal plants as one of its key
inputs; and also support future self help rural development and poverty alleviation programs,
operating through community driven initiatives. The key elements of the project's experience
could be captured under these two broad headings.

1. Generating Support for Sustainable Medicinal Plant Use and Traditional Medicine

The project pursued specific objectives that would directly support the practice of Ayurvedic
medicine, by promoting the availability of medicinal plants, both taken from the wild, and
produced "ex situ". By the end of the project, there was anecdotal evidence that the incidence of
man-related destruction of natural stocks of plants and their environments through
over-harvesting and the use of inappropriate methods had been reduced, fire risks had been
moderated. Moreover, the balance between supplying medicinal plant materials through
harvesting and ex situ production had begun to shift in favor of production. In addition, there was
a renewed interest in traditional medicine among a younger generation of villagers, as an
alternative to "western medicine", with implications for costs to households, access to care and
timeliness of treatments. GOSL has expressed interest in developing a more professionalized
traditional medicine practice (see Annex 9). To support this, and to offer information to a wider
audience, it would be beneficial to examine in detail, the experience of the project, under the
following headings:

a)      Accumulating and Managing Etho-botanical and Traditional Medicine Information: The
project initiated surveys with communities to establish a base-line inventory of species important
to local practices of ayurvedic medicine. It also undertook the translation and conservation of
historic records of indigenous medical practices. This information has been archived with a
national research institute (BMARI) which is developing protocols and guidelines for access to
this information, as well as the information technology required to provide access. While this
process has proven difficult , an analysis of the mission and purposes of the data collection
                              1


exercise; processes and methods that have been used, their advantages and disadvantages, costs;
and of alternative practices that might be adopted would provide a basis for future applications.

b)      Managing Intellectual Property Rights: The project anticipated that issues related to the
protection of traditional knowledge from unwarranted exploitation could occur, as proved to be
the case. GOSL began a process of addressing the issue, and produced draft legislation and
regulations that could protect the rights of persons holding traditional medicine information.



                                                - 37 -

Unfortunately, this legislation has not been enacted . GOSL does not appear to have a clear
                                                         2


understanding of the social and economic consequences of their failure to conclude this activity
and there is some opinion that these consequences may be minimal. A review of information
concerning the international experience with the transference of traditional medical knowledge
would help clarify the risks to Sri Lanka's indigenous medical system in the current situation.

c)       Sustaining Yields of Medicinal Plants in the Wild: The project has produced two studies,
based on field observations, of the likely sustainable yield of two perennial medicinal plants under
a prescribed harvesting procedure. This is a modest beginning to a process that should be
expanded. An analysis of the procedures used to initiate and conduct these studies would assist in
developing a further efficient plan; and would cover; criteria for identifying candidate plants with
stakeholders; selection and training of monitors/para foresters to collect yield information;
information management and dissemination; and mobilization of village monitors to assure
continued monitoring and reporting on yields and plant health. A process management, cost and
financing plan would also be required.

d)       Promoting the Production of Medicinal Plants: The project concluded a satisfactory
program investigating the propagation of about 22 species of medicinal plants. It used a contract
research process that engaged national "centers of excellence" which produced in most cases,
relatively quick, and low cost results. Given the interest in producing medicinal plants as an
income generating enterprise, the experience of the propagation work should be analyzed and
costed with the object of scaling it up. However, important work is required to develop
production recommendations that can be used by farmers, either on a crop production basis, or as
part of a farming systems approach, if the overall strategy of promoting production "ex situ" is to
be achieved.

e)       Promoting Apprenticeship: The project undertook the sponsorship of apprenticeships for
young persons, attached to well recognized ayurvedic medicine masters. This program, the
"Gurukula" program, stimulated interest, and increased the network of practitioners in rural areas
under the project. An analysis of the program that covered criteria for selecting candidates, their
qualifications and motivations; selection of masters; content, duration and validation of
training/apprenticeships; post apprenticeship experience of candidates; management, costs and
supervision; would provide a basis for scaling up the program.

Information developed under these headings would be most applicable to those undertaking or
modifying programs that support ayurvedic medicine. To this, additional guidance and learning
can be taken from the project that has applications beyond ayurvedic medicine or medicinal plant
projects.

2. Integrating Specific Goals for Conservation and Community Self Help

The project had as its primary goal, a well targeted objective of conserving medicinal plant stocks
in the wild, and promoting their sustainable use, as a contribution to sustaining the traditional
practice of ayurvedic medicine and global biodiversity. It sought to engage communities as
first-in-line partners in this effort. This concept reflected years of experience and best practice in



                                                 - 38 -

such fields as forestry conservation, environmental protection and biodiversity conservation, that
showed that conservation solely through the prevention of use was generally not effective. The
project design took into account that communities would be less responsive to control and
regulation than incentives to adopt the project's objectives as their own and modify behavior to
sustain them.

By the project's mid term, in spite of some positive results (increased awareness of issues,
formation of village organizations, launching selected community help activities) it became clear
that action plans that were exclusively focused on sustainable use and conservation in situ were
not generally effective in mobilizing wide-spread support. In response, the project reformulated its
main operating strategy for assisting communities. In place of plans to conserve and sustain the
use of plants as a main focus of activity (largely through traditional in situ conservation activities),
communities were encouraged to develop community development self help plans (micro plans)
that addressed the broader interests in improving general income levels and community
well-being. Actions for the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources would be a
contributor to the overall micro plan, not its goal. Project assistance would be expanded to
include the provision of grants to co-finance activities within the micro-plan, and to provide initial
funding for a community credit facility or revolving fund to be administered by the community.

The project, therefore, adopted a strategy that had been successful elsewhere, that conservation
and sustainable use of community resources cannot be effectively achieved as an end in itself, and
should be embedded in the communities concern for livelihood, social development, and, in the
case of medicinal plants, health. This may be the primary lesson of the project.

The introduction of micro plans in the project was not problem free, and a project-financed "case
study" of micro planning provided insights into how it could have been improved. Moreover, the
      3


micro planning process also opened the risk that the priority to be given to the original goals of
protecting the biodiversity base that supports traditional medicine, could be significantly lowered
or lost. However, since the GOSL expects to continue the use of community participation both in
the further development related to forest and wildlife conservation and to traditional medicine , it4


would be beneficial to re-examine the experience under the following headings:

a)      Organization of Community and Village Self Help Groups. The VPMCs and their
supporting CAMCs were developed under the impetus of conservation and sustainable use of
medicinal plants (a relatively narrowly defined mission). They are, however, being converted into
"not-for-profit" corporations with a wider mandate for community development. Analysis of their
corporate structure, roles and responsibilities, the selection and training of officers, financial basis
and sustainability, insights into the effective "empowerment" of such entities, their acceptability
and integration with pre-existing institutions, among other features, would assist the evaluation of
this model for institutionalizing community self help and establish the basis for replicating it.

b)      Performance of Micro Credit and Revolving Funds: The project adopted the concept of
transferring funds to VPMCs ("seed funds") to complement funds generated by the members
(core funds) with the objective of establishing community managed credit facilities. In so doing,
the project adopted a practice that is widely recognized as building local empowerment,


                                                 - 39 -

community savings, gender equality, as well as a stronger income base. Further analysis of the
record of performance including types of loans made, sub projects financed, evaluation criteria for
loan applications, credit management requirements and guidelines, financial stability and
sustainability of the fund, and capacity building for officers would assist in further adaptation of
the tool.

c)       Communications for Community Development: The project engaged a cadre of "social
mobilizers", later referred to as community development officers, to establish contact with villages
and organize the VPMCs around project objectives. This staff, as well as other project staff, were
extensively briefed on the project objectives and design prior to assuming their responsibilities.
They did not, however, receive training or guidelines in how to conduct a social mobilization
activity in a village or receive guidance on the actual messages and communications processes that
would lead villagers, although a communications strategy based on a classic "Information,
Education and Communications (IEC) model was developed. However, the number of VPMCs
established verifies that many Community Development Organisations (CDOs) did succeed. An
analysis of the methods used by CDOs in community, their means of communicating with villagers
mobilization including use of the IEC approach, the personal characteristics, qualifications and
attitudes of the CDOs themselves, and the system that supported CDOs, would provide a basis for
expanding recruitment, training, improving management, strengthening guidelines and
communications packages, necessary for GOSL to further adopt this methodology in community
development in forestry as well as indigenous medicine.

d)       Micro Planning Process: By the end of the project, all VPMCs had produced a micro plan
covering their engagement with the project. Many of these were relatively modest in scope,
having concentrated on activities related to medicinal plants without addressing other community
needs, and overly dependant on project provided funding without seeking funding from other
community development sources. However, most of the elements of a successful micro planning
process have been now identified in the Sri Lanka context, even if not practiced systematically. To
support the further adaptation of the micro planning process, GOSL would now be able to
produce an operational guideline (manual) based on experience, to support micro planning as a
continuous activity, addressing (i) initiating a participatory process; (ii) developing basic
community data; (iii) identification of community priorities, activities and sources of support (iv)
identification of income earning possibilities, within and outside the specific ambit of a "project
interest"; and (v) applying the participatory monitoring and evaluation method, based on project
experience and documentation. Moreover, any such process should address the issue of
maintaining an appropriate alignment of interest in economic development on one hand and the
protection of the natural resource base on the other. This would also serve as a basis for further
training of community leaders.
______________________________
1/
  Ranjith Mahindapala (June 2004), Case Study on the Database in the Medicinal Plants Project, IUCN
2/
  Ranjith Mahindapala (June 2004), Case Study on Legislation for Safeguarding Traditional Knowledge Related to
the Use of Medicinal Plants, IUCN
3/
  Kapila Fernando (June 2004), Lessons from Introduction and Implementation of Micro Plans, IUCN
4/
  A.P. Dainis (February 2003), Strategy for Transferring Project Responsibilities to Community-Based
Organizations, IUCN



                                                     - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Options for Future Government Intervention to the Indigenous
Medicine Sector

Development Objectives and Benefits

Sri Lanka's population is served through both "western" and traditional (ayurvedic) medical
practices. The expansion of the western medical practice, which has received support through the
World Bank and other donor agencies, is a major factor in the GOSL poverty reduction and
economic growth strategies. However, a large segment of the population, particularly among the
poor and the rural also depend on traditional or indigenous medical practices for maintaining
health and receiving treatment. In fact, for many, reliance on Indigenous Medicine (IM) has been
their only option. Recognizing this, and as a complement to its policy for supporting the
development of the western-tradition health sector, GOSL has also enunciated a new and
coherent policy for developing and supporting the IM sector.

The policy for IM as outlined in a policy brief of the new Strategic Planning department of the
MIM, has as its objectives the preservation and expansion of knowledge related to IM, assurance
of quality and safety standards in traditional medicines, remedies and devices, and the promotion
of a code of ethical behavior among practitioners of IM. In effect, the policy is to provide Sri
Lanka with an indigenous health maintenance option that is safe, efficacious and accessible.
GOSL will undertake an action program to begin to operationalize this policy over the next 4-5
years.

The principal beneficiaries of the policy and a program to implement it will be the poor and rural
population who depend on IM practices and practitioners for a majority of their health care needs.
While also being served by an expanding availability of western health care system, this population
would have the option of rationing their use of these services considering such factors as cost,
access, and timeliness, while not forgoing health maintenance and treatment offered through IM.
Indigenous Medicine may also offer more home-produced or community-produced remedies that
conserve cash among the poor.

On a secondary level, practitioners of IM, and producers of Ayurvedic Drugs, Cosmetics and
Devices (ADCDs) will also benefit from this policy through finding improved access to traditional
knowledge, reliability of plant and other raw materials supplies, and assistance in their practices.
Similarly, producers, importers and distributors of medicines and devices would benefit from
improved technical advice and quality control over basic materials, and new legal protection of
traditional knowledge associated with their products. Finally, the treasury may also expect some
benefits as greater reliability and availability of locally grown materials reduces the pressure to
import, and as royalties and duties increase through a more carefully monitored export and
licensed market.

Preliminary Project Description

GOSL has identified, conceptually, an investment program covering about 4-5 years, as a vehicle
for implementing its policy. The program follows from and builds on successful results of the



                                                 - 41 -

Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project (CSUMPP). Actions for
implementing the policy would fall into 5 components:

i)       Policy and Regulatory Reform: Support would be provided for advisors to assist in
preparing a new legislative framework covering IM, and to update existing regulations within
various sectors including forestry and trade, to correspond to the new policy. Other anomalies
would be corrected as well. In addition, work would be completed to operationalize regulations
covering the protection of intellectual property.

ii)      Human Resource Development: Training of IM practitioners through the apprenticeship
program ("guru-kula" system) initiated under CSUMPP would continue. Opportunities for
in-service refresher training and independent staff learning would also be offered for researchers,
producers, manufacturers and others associated with IM.

iii)     Research and Development: Initiatives begun under the CSUMPP to determine the
sustainable use of various medicinal plant species (sustainability studies), propagation methods,
and ex situ plant production techniques would be continued under the responsibility of BMARI.
Likewise, BMARI would continue maintaining and augmenting the medicinal plant database,
including improving physical access through upgraded information technology and refining access
and use criteria. BMARI would also perform quality control functions through a new laboratory.
Lastly, the legal status and operational staffing of BMARI as an institution would be strengthened
to perform its expanded role.

iv)      Product Development and Marketing: While recognizing that the private sector has the
principle role in the production and marketing of ayurvedic medicine and products, GOSL would
improve the regulatory environment for the industry. Advisory services would be sought to assist
in establishing product and production standards (quality, quantity, authenticity) in the public
interest and in support of better trading opportunities. Resources would also be provided to
facilitate the adoption of improvements in medicine production technology by the producers of
plant materials, and of products, and market intelligence for producers.

v)       Institution Development Supporting IM: Advisory services and operational support would
be provided to continue development of "CAMCs" and their VPMCs, in new areas of the
country, following the model of the "non-profit" business developed in the CSUMPP. These
agencies have proven to be effective in mobilizing grass-roots self-help, and awareness and
sensitivity to environmental issues related to IM. The existing and new CAMCs would be assisted
in such mutually supporting activities as knowledge sharing, self development, formation of
collective actions, by a new project office, to be formed within the Ministry of Indigenous
Medicine. This office would provide assistance to individual CAMCs or to them collectively. The
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine itself would be strengthened by the formation of a Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which would incorporate the project office as well as provide
general planning functions for the ministry, and the management systems governing its provincial
counterparts, clinics and hospitals. Several key organs of the MIM (for example, the BMARI and
National Institute for Traditional Medicine (NITM)) would also be restructured, retrained and
re-staffed.



                                                - 42 -

The costs of the program are not currently detailed. However, based on the experience with the
Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project, the activities identified may require
US$10-12 million.

Management and Implementation Arrangements

The action program would be managed by the MIM through a project office in its newly formed
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. As tested under the CSUMPP, apart from guiding
policy and regulatory reform which would be a role of the MIM, most actions would be
implemented by partner agencies, under contracts and co-financing agreements with the MIM. In
this manner, a sense of ownership of the policy and program would be maintained within BMARI,
NITM, universities, provincial ministries responsible for IM, and other national ministries with
specific capabilities related to IM.

The new program would be implemented with the full participation of stakeholders. The project
office would conduct periodic participatory workshops for establishing annual work plans and
evaluating results, using professional facilitators. Further, it would organize and facilitate technical
workshops for the leadership of the CAMCs/VPMCs to support their mutual development.

Issues and Risks

One of the principal questions for GOSL will continue to be - the balancing of its attention and
support, between the western and the indigenous health care and treatment traditions. While
international organizations such as WHO recognize the complimentarily of these approaches to
health maintenance, to date, the western tradition appears to have received bulk of the GOSL
resources for health. By adopting a policy for IM, GOSL will be attempting to reach a balance
between the two health care traditions and a combination of the elements of the two that may best
serve in the circumstances faced by target populations (the rural poor, urban poor). The issue will
remain whether stakeholders in western medical tradition will be willing to respect an inclusive
policy.

Because it is "traditional", IM has not received significant protections under intellectual property
law, although GOSL appears ready to adopt a new Intellectual Property Rights law governing
ayurvedic medicinal practices. However, applying regulations will present a significant governance
challenge considering the potential commercial value of such information. Special attention will be
required in the naming of administrators, and establishing accountability and transparency systems
if information exchanges, apprenticeships, and other means of expanding the efficiency and
efficacy of the sector if it is developed.

ADCD production and distribution is largely through the private sector, although with a
substantial presence of the state ayurvedic medicine company. In its effort to stimulate demand
and promote ex situ production of medicinal plants, and to sustain the new CAMCs in their
start-up phase, GOSL has offered contracts by the state, for CAMC-produced materials, and local
and provincial officials of the MIM have given preferences to these organizations. A private



                                                 - 43 -

sector producer of ADCDs has also entered into a contract with a CAMC for plant materials,
although of a smaller volume. GOSL will require a clear position on the role of public ADCD
production and preferential procurement to avoid dominating the market and frustrating the
achievement of efficiency and competitiveness in the sector.

In launching a new support program, GOSL will also face two significant risks.

First, ambiguities in GOSL's past policy towards IM has resulted in frequent changes in
ministerial affiliation and senior staffing of the sector. As a result, a professionalized managerial
culture and lines of recognized authority have not been fully developed at the sectoral level. This
has had a negative effect on the management of several important institutions as well (DOA,
BMARI). To address these shortcomings, the proposed program recognizes the need to develop
management skills and systems, however mitigating the risk will require a phased approach to
implementation that favors capacity building ahead of investments in the institutions to be
supported.

Second, by increasing quality and access to ADCDs, the demand for plant materials will also
increase. Presently, much of the demand is being met through imports, which could continue with
greater controls on quality. The CSUMPP has also begun to develop and introduce plant
production technologies, although this has been limited so far to few species and mainly annual
crops. The project envisages continuing research to address the problems of propagation and
sustainable harvesting of naturally found materials. The risk remains, however, that once
responsibilities for assuring the sustainable use of forest products is transferred to the Forestry
Department, even if it is the best indicated authority, and with the advent of community forestry,
specific interest on sustaining medicinal plants populations will diminish. MIM will have to
maintain awareness-building activities to mitigate this risk.




                                                 - 44 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution

                Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project
                Implementation Completion Report - Borrower's Contribution

                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Sri Lanka Conservation and Sustainable use of Medicinal Plants Project valued at US$ 5.07
and time-scaled for 5 years was initiated in June 1998, and completed in June 2004 with an extra
12 months permitted to formalize transfer of Project activities to relevant institutions. The
primary objectives of the Project were conserving globally and nationally significant medicinal
plant species, their habitats and genomes, and promote their sustainable use. The Project sought
to achieve these objectives by promoting a series of designed activities for in-situ and ex-situ
conservation of medicinal plants, and through the provision of information and institutional
support. The Project identified local communities comprising all shades of people living in
proximity to five specially selected Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas (MPCAs) as the target
population and the primary beneficiaries.

The institutional framework, in the conservation areas, comprised Village Project Management
Committees, (VPMCs) at the village level, Conservation Area Management Committees
(CAMCs) at the MPCA level, and the Project Offices (POs). The Project was co-ordinated by
the Project Management Unit (PMU) appointed by the Ministry of Indigenous Medicine (MIM),
and was implemented in collaboration with other partner agencies such as the Department of
Auyrveda, the Forest Department (FD), the Department of Wildlife Conservation (DWLC), the
relevant Provincial Councils and the Divisional Secretariats (DS). The Country Office of the
World Conservation Union (IUCN) provided operational support.

The socio-economic survey, the ethno botanical survey and the resource inventory survey led to
the collection of very valuable data. Despite a few shortcomings in the survey process, the data
collected has been considered to be of good quality. The processed information from these data
sets is now incorporated in a new database established at the Bandaranaike Memorial Ayurvedic
Research Institute (BMARI) which is one of the important outputs of the Project.

The baseline data facilitated mapping of resources and demarcation of forest zones. It was also
the source of information for village micro plans. Various consultancy studies however, have
reported that a stereotype planning process had been applied in all VPMCs, resulting in the
preparation of near identical micro plans. It is also reported that planning had been largely
project-driven, depriving the community of the opportunity of gaining self-confidence and a sense
of ownership of the village micro plans.

The main contributions of the Project to in situ conservation of medicinal plants were enrichment
planting of about 205 hectares, 45 kilometers of stream bank planting, establishment of fire lines,
zonal demarcation of forests and substitution of wood stakes used in bean cultivation with
synthetic cord. The studies on sustainable levels of harvesting were limited to 5 species as time
did not permit a wider coverage.



                                               - 45 -

Another successful activity was the plant propagation research, which led to the development of
protocols for mass production of planting material for 22 widely used species. The publication
and dissemination of information on plant propagation procedures through techno-guides was
another useful output. These studies have created a new interest in home-gardens, of which there
are currently over 3000. Commercial cultivation by a few local entrepreneurs has also been a
significant outcome of the research component of the Project. These activities while indirectly
contributing to in situ conservation intensively strengthen ex situ conservation of medicinal plants.

The project has attempted to address the issue of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR). Although
legislation on IPR was drafted and approved by a Cabinet sub committee it is yet to be enacted in
Parliament. Nevertheless, around 1200 Ola leaf manuscripts transcribed and published.

The education, training and extension activities met with unqualified success. The impact was at
several levels on a continuing basis, and was probably the most significant and profitable exercise
of the Project. Its outcomes, spin-offs and impacts involved 1) a country-wide awareness of the
importance of conserving medicinal plants, 2) creation of a regiment of field staff including
community members, well trained in social mobilization, data collection and analysis,
documentation of field data etc, 3) creating a strong and effective gender awakening and
empowerment rarely seen in rural communities, 4) creation of a clear understanding and
awareness of participatory/joint forest management, 5) demonstration of opportunities for
increased choices for better livelihood, as well as demonstrating greater efficiency and innovation
in production of traditional medicine, and 6) reviving and expanding the system of Gurukula
education that characterised knowledge transfer in Deshiya Chikitsa, the traditional system of
medicine.

Finally, there was the major issue of transferring ownership and management of the assets and
activities of the project-created organizations to the communities on the one hand, and for DoA to
assume the responsibility of guiding, facilitating, sustaining and expanding the work of VPMCs
and CAMCs, on the other. This process was initiated in 2002 and carried through during the
one-year extension granted to the Project But the work is not over and there is more to be done.
MIM is gearing itself for the task ahead.

The CAMCs are to be registered as non-profit making companies once the immovable assets are
transferred. The MIM on the other hand has drawn up an action plan to ensure the continuation of
activities that were to be the responsibility of the DoA, BMARI and NITM. This Action Plan has
identified Policy, Human Resource Development, Research, Product Development and
Institutional Approaches as the key components to carry forward the activities initiated under the
Project. MIM has in addition done the ground work to carry forward the project activities by
drafting a National Policy on Traditional Knowledge and a 5-year development plan to uplift the
system of traditional medicine, and finally to back-stop the VPMC/CAMCs operations, an
inter-ministerial committee and a National Forum with wide community representation are
planned to be established shortly.




                                                 - 46 -

- 47 -

