Report No. PID4672
Project Name                Sri Lanka-Conservation and Sustainable (@ +) 
Use of Medicinal Plants Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       LKGE35828
Borrower                         Government of Sri Lanka
Implementing Agency              Ministry Health and Indigenous
Medicine/ Provincial Councils.
Estimated Project Cost           US$ 4.7 million
Date PID Prepared                October 24, 1997
Proposed Board Date              December 18, 1997
Background:
Medicinal plants are an important part of the biodiversity
resources of Sri Lanka. The island has more species per unit than
any country in Asia containing over 3,350 species of flowering
plants and over 300 species of ferns. A large number of these flora
are endemic; as much as 279 of the flowering plants, 18t of the
ferns, and 16t of the terrestrial vertebrates are endemic to the
island. In particular, the island is well endowed with several
species of medicinal plants. Among the native flora of Sri Lanka,
there are well over 500 species that have been used in traditional
medicine.
Benefits:
The project's benefits accrue at both global and local level.
Global benefits of this project will include the conservation of
rare and endemic medicinal plants. At least 189 species of the
1,414 medicinal plants used in Sri Lanka are endemic to the island
and of these, 79 species are threatened. These 79 species are
either endemic to the island or have a limited distribution over
the Indian sub-continent. Even among the non-endemic species found
in Sri Lanka, the indigenous populations often represent eco types
that are distinct from those found elsewhere. Conservation of these
plants will secure the continued existence of these rare and
endemic species of plants. Another global contribution of the
project will be the preservation of knowledge on medicinal plants.
The preservation of traditional knowledge on medicinal plants will
ensure that practitioners knowledge of plants and their uses is
globally recognized and that the source of this knowledge is easily
identifiable. Laboratory research on plants and their uses will
also augment existing information on this subject. Research on
identification of methods and levels of sustainable extraction will
help to improve global knowledge on sustainable cultivation of
medicinal plants.



Benefits at the local level will include increased choices of
livelihood and better income opportunities for people who will be
involved in home gardening and plant cultivation. Further,
ethnobotanical reserves will attract some increase in income. The
project will also broaden people's choices of livelihood by
promoting alternative sources of income generation. Management of
Medicinal plant Conservation Areas and promotion of site visits by
tourists will provide employment to local people. The project's
focus on community participation will promote community involvement
in resource conservation and more equitable sharing of natural
resources and benefits. The project will also clarify the role of
the community and governmental agencies in resource management.
National benefits of the project will include improved supply of
medicinal plants. Improved information will be available on factors
which affect the supply of plants and existing sources of knowledge
will be compiled and preserved in-country to maximize national
benefits. An analysis of market factors will promote greater
efficiency in the production of traditional medicine and remove
supply side inconsistencies which hinder their availability
throughout the year. Further, the project will promote sustainable
use of natural resources through managing critically endangered
habitats and monitoring its rate of regeneration. The project will
also build skills and increase awareness on conservation of
medicinal plants.
Threats to Sri Lanka's Medicinal plants:
Sri Lanka's valuable medicinal plants are threatened by a number of
factors. Of principal importance are:
1        Unsustainable collection and cultivation practices: The
number and quality of medicinal plants is adversely affected by
overharvesting and lack of care to their habitat when collecting
plants from the wild. Overharvesting of plants is directly linked
to the high demand for Ayurvedic medicines. Currently 60- of the
demand for medicinal plants is met through imports. The domestic
production which meets the remaining demand, does so through over
exploitation of indigenous plant resources. Since most of the
supply for plants is from the wild, this has led to overharvesting
of wild populations of species. Nursery capacity and cultivation in
home gardens, which has the potential to increase supply of plant
and thus take the pressure off wild stocks, is too restricted at
present to meet the demand without overharvesting wild populations
of plants. In addition, increased demand for agricultural land and
unsustainable cultivation practices such as shifting cultivation
and 'Chena" or slash and burn cultivation destroy plant habitat. As
a result about 79 species of medicinal plants are immediately
threatened with extinction.
2.      Lack of information, awareness and technical skills on
medicinal plants and their uses: Since no comprehensive analysis of
social and economic causes of plant loss has yet been undertaken,
the socio-economic causes and effects of plant loss are not clear.
Further, the lack of comprehensive and authoritative information on
- 2 -



medicinal plants hinders an assessment of their status,
implementation of activities necessary for preserving their habitat
and monitoring the effect of rehabilitative efforts. At present
either the sources of knowledge are contradictory (e.g. several
plants are identified under different names and uses by
practitioners of traditional medicine) or are scattered and
fragmentary. A shortage of skills on ethnobotany have also hindered
effective conservation strategies.
Sri Lanka is fortunate to have a rich stock of indigenous knowledge
on medicinal plants due to a large number of practitioners of
traditional medicine. However, this important source of knowledge
is currently under threat as little effort has been made to
understand and document their knowledge. As a result, the death of
a practitioner signifies a net loss to the pool of this important
source of information. Unless a concerted effort is made to record
the knowledge of plants used by practitioners of indigenous
medicine, it is very likely that vital information on plant uses,
their characteristics and habitats will be lost.
As a result of the above factors, the habitat for medicinal plants
has suffered considerably. Many species of plants which were
readily available only a decade or two ago are now rare. About 20
of these plants are immediately threatened with extinction.
Sustainable management and use of this globally important resource
is, therefore, of considerable importance.
Government Sector Strategy:
In recent years, Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has developed its
strategy on key environmental issues and awarded some attention to
the conservation of medicinal plants. The main policy instruments
of GOSL's strategy have been the National Conservation Strategy of
1986, the National Environmental Action Plan -NEAP- in 1991 and an
updated NEAP of 1994. Further, several institutions such as the
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, National Environment
Steering Committee (NESC), Forestry and Wildlife Departments have
also been formed. Some attention has been paid to the conservation
of medicinal plants through National Health Policy which provides
for the development of traditional systems of medicine as an
integral component of the overall health program for the country.
The favorable effect of this strategy is the existence of a broad
framework on environmental issues. However, specific attention to
natural resource conservation is not present since policy
formulation has focused primarily on urban environmental problems
and inadequate attention has been awarded to natural resource
management. GOSL's ability to provide increased resources and
attention to conservation of medicinal plants is limited due to
other political and economic priorities.
Project Objectives
The objective of this project is to conserve globally and
nationally significant medicinal plants, their habitats, species
and genomes and promote their sustainable use in Sri Lanka.
- 3 -



Project Description:
The project will consist of the following components:
1.      Expansion of in-situ conservation: Under this component the
project will establish five Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas
(MPCAs) at Ritigala, Naula, Rajawaka, Kanneliya and Bibile.
Villages in and around the MPCAs will be the focus of community
organization for planning and implementation of village activities.
This will include management planning, inventories of plant
resources and their use, cultivation and enrichment with medicinal
plants in the wild and extension services to promote the
sustainable harvesting of plants. This component will also support
investigations to promote sustainable utilization of plants and
ethnobotanical research to document the knowledge of plants used by
practitioner of traditional medicine. To promote financial
sustainability, the project will develop the MPCAs as sites for the
promotion of informational material and educational site visits. In
addition, this component will target the villages in and around the
MPCAs to promote village development activities. Realizing that one
of the key reasons for plant loss is their overexploitation by
collectors who have no other means of livelihood, the project will
also promote village development activities under this component.
These activities will consist of alternative income generation to
those who are currently dependent on MPCA resources for their
livelihood and to find substitutes for currently destructive
activities. Lastly, the project will improve access to market
information and development of value added activities.
2.      Expansion of ex-situ cultivation and conservation: This
component will address the need for increased nursery capacity and
cultivation of plants in home gardens and farms. The project will
support the formation of nurseries at each MPCA and enhance the
capacity of three existing nurseries. Research under this component
will include the feasibility for propagation of selected species of
plants and suitability of plants for cultivation and home
gardening. This component will also provide training to improve
skills and undertake development of educational materials for
building awareness.
3.      Information and institutional support: Currently, information
on medicinal plants is available in various research centers. This
component will support the compilation of existing information into
a database. Access to this database will be available by satisfying
the criteria to be specified by the Government of Sri Lanka.
Additionally, the project will promote appropriate legal and policy
environment through studies and draft regulations. This component
will also support project monitoring and evaluation, coordination
and project management.
Project Financing:
Total project cost is estimated to be US$ 4.57 million of which 4.7
million is proposed for financing from the Global Environment Facility.
- 4 -



Sustainability:
The community-based management strategy of the botanical reserves
will strongly favor the long-term viability of the project by
developing incentives for surrounding villages to maintain their
environmental integrity. This is also an approach that minimizes
Government recurrent expenditures.
Social sustainability will be assured through involving local
people and NGOs in the design and implementation of the project.
The project will ensure that the economic benefits from
conservation of medicinal plants flow to local communities
especially those involved in collecting and cultivating them.
Representative institutions will be supported at the local level
and the clarification of legal rights will contribute to the social
sustainability of the project.
Through increasing the technical skills and capacity of government
agencies, the project will also build a sustainable skill base.
Improved local skills will ensure that the technical aspects of the
project such as data collection and maintenance, ethnobotanical
surveys and monitoring are conducted efficiently and contribute
effectively to the project's success.
Lessons from previous IDA involvement:
Since the proposed project is the first of its kind to be supported
by the World Bank/GEF, there are no closely related projects to
draw specific lessons. However, lessons from other concluded and
ongoing projects point to the lessons that (a) biodiversity
conservation requires an adequate policy, legal and regulatory
framework; (b) a strong institutional framework is necessary to
promote biodiversity conservation; (c) successful design and
implementation of conservation projects depends heavily on the
active participation of resource users and beneficiaries; and (d)
improvement of information sources is necessary to make qualitative
and informed decision.
These considerations are being taken into account to ensure that
means for institutional cooperation are created, public
participation is ensured and information sources are updated.
Poverty Category:
The project will specifically address the needs of the poor who are
involved in medicinal plants collection and cultivation. Majority
of the collection takes place in the wild and is undertaken by the
poorest people in rural areas. These people will form the target
beneficiaries of the project's activities. Through improving their
skills, conserving the habitat of plants that are their source of
income, improving their access to markets and implementing
community programs the project will provide direct benefits to the
local communities. Consequently, the project will act as an
instrument for targeting poverty.
-5-



Contact Point:           Malcolm Jansen/Nadim Khouri Task Managers
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 24 1997.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project has been placed in Category B for the purposes of
environmental assessment. The effects of the projects are largely
beneficial for the environment.
- 7 -



