Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFWIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7386-ET
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEPTEMBER 28, 1988
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This doacnent has a resricted distution and may be used by recipients only In the perforance of
their offlcial dudes. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed wihout World Bank authrzono



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Current Unit - Ethiopia Birr (Br)
Exchange rate: US$1.00 - Birr 2.07 (1973 onwards)
The Calendar
Fiscal Year: July 8 - July 7
Agricultural Year: August t'rough July
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha       = Hectare (2.47 acres)
kg       -  kilogram
km       -  kilometre
lb       =  pound
ltr      =  litre
ton      - metric ton (1000 kg) - 2204.6 lbs
quintal  -  0.1 metric ton (100 kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     African Development Bank
AIDB     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO    Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC      Agricultural Marketing Corporation
EEC      European Economic Community
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
PADEP    Peasant Agricultural Development 'rogram/Project
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PDRE     People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
PES      Printing and Editorial Serv'ces
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSPI     Price Studies and Policy tnstitute
SIDA     Swedish International Develnpme=t Agency
T&V      Training and Visit



FOR 0MCLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADD      -   Agricultural Development Department
AEC      -   Avraja (District) Extension Coordinator
AED      -   AgriciAltural Extension Department
AEZ      -   Agro Ecological Zone
AFDB     -    African Development Bank
AIDB     -    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO    -   Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AMC      -   Agricultural Marketing Corporation
CBU      -    Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CPADID   -    Cooperative Promotion and Agricultural Development Main
Department
DA       -    Development Agent
EEC      -    European Economic Community
EDP      -    Electronic Data Processing
EFTC     -    Ethiopian Freight Transport Corporation
EHRS     -    Ethiopian Highland Reclamation Study
EsC      -    Ethiopia Seed Corporation
EIm      -    Ethiopian Institute of Management
FAO      -    Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
ED       -    Finance Department
VLDP     -    Fourth Livestock Development Project
EQ       -    Headquarters
IDA      -    International Development Association
inR      -    Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
IFAD     -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPRD     -    Information and Public Relations Department
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -    Limited International Bidding
MUrAF    -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MCTD     -   Ministry of Coffee and Tea _2cvelopment
MDT      -   Ministry of Domestic Trade
MIS      -   Management Information System
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOU      -   Memorandum of Understanding
MSFD     -    Ministry of State Farm Development
NBE      -    National Bank of Ethiopia
NFTP     -    National Field Trials Program
FIU      -    National Fertilizer and Inputs Unit
NW       -    North West
ODA      -    Official Development Assistance
ONCCP    -    Office of the National Committee for Central Planning
PA       -    Peasant Association
PADEP    -    Peasant Agricultural Development Program/Project
PACPD    -    Peasant Association and Cooperative Promotion Department
PC       -    Producer Cooperative
PCC      -    Project Coordinating Committee
PCD      -    Project Coordination Division
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PCatED    -    Project Coordination und Monitoring and Evaluation Department
PDRE     -    Peovle*s Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
PBS      -    Printing and Editorial Service
PPD      -    Planning and Programing Department
PPF      -    Project Preparatio. Facility
PSPI     -    Price Studies and Policy Institute
REC      -    Research Extension Coordinator
RELC     -    Research Extension Liasion Committee
RID      -    Regional Integrated Development
RRC      -    Relief and Rehabilitation Commission
RTPD     -    Rural Technology Promotion Department
SC       -    Service Cooperative
SDR      -    Special Drawing Rights
SCCP     -    Service Cooperative Consultative Planning
SIDA     -    Swedish International Development Agency
SMS      -    Subject Matter Specialist
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditure
TA       -    Technical Assistance
TACC     -    Technical Assistance Cordinating Committee
TYPP     -    Ten Year Perspective Plan
T&V      -    Training and Visit
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program
VEC      -   Woreda (Sub-district) Extension Coordinator
WFP      -    World Food Program
ZEC      -    Zonal Extension Coordinator



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.      THE ECONOMY AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . .
A. The Economy .  . .... . . . .    . . . . . . . .    1
B. Recent Economic Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
C. The Agricultural Sectr . . .. .. ... ... .. .          2
II. *   PROJECT BACKGROUND  . . .. ...  . ......
A.  The Peasant Agricultural Development  . . . . . .
Program (PADEP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
B. PADEP Issues .. * ... .. ..  . . .. . . . . . . . .    .  10
C.  Status of Donor Assistance    .............   18
III.    THE PROJECT . .                      C* . . .  . . . . . . . .   .. . .
A.  Objectives and Components     . . . ..........   20
B. Detailed Features . . .         .          . . . . . 21
C. Project Cost and  Fnancing    . . . . . . . . . . . ..  30
D.    Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .   32
E. Disbursements . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . * . .  . . .  . 33
F. Accounts and Audits. . . . . .  . . ..   * . .   .   . .  . . 35
G. Cost Recovery and Budgetary Implications  . . . . . . . 36
IV.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Project Organization, Management and Coordination  . .  37
B. Ministry of Agriculture Sector Services . . . . *     38
C. Technology Development and Adaptive Research . . . . .  41
D.  Implementation of Northwest Zone PADEP Pro-^m . . . .  42
E. Farm Input Supkly and Distribution and Agl  Altural
Credit  ....*........            .....                44
F. Grain Marketing and Pricing and Price Policy
Analysis  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  48
G. Project Reporting and Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . 49
H.  Implementation Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   51



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                      Page No.
V.       BENEFITS, ECONONIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Ao Benefits . . . . . . . . .. ..........                    52
B. Economic Analysis ...................    55
C.  Environmental Impact . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
VI.      ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
LIST OF TA..BLES
3.1      Summary of Project Costs
3.2      Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
3.3      Procurement Arrangements
5.1      Estimated Impact on Production
ANNEXES
1.      Summary Cost Tables
2.      Disbursement Schedule
3.      Agricultural Sector M&E Suggested Key Indicators
4.       Charts
5.       Economic Analysis
6.       Documents Available in Project File
MAPS:    IBRD numbers:-17512R, 17556R, 21036 and 21040



ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrowers  People's Democratic Rtrublic of fthiopia (PDRE)
Executing Atenciess Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO)
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank tAIDB)
Price Studies and Policy Institute (PSPI)
Amount: SDR 66 million (US$85 million equivalent)
Terms:   Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Relendinut Terms: 42 to AISCO for institution building repayable over 10
years including 3 years of grace, and 21 to AIDB (to relend to AISCO for
fertilizer procurement). repayable over 15 years including 3 years of
grace.
Prolect Description: The primary objectives of the project are to increase
the foodgrain production, productivity, and incomes of the peasant sector
in Ethiopia. The broad project strategy for achieving these goals
includes: (a) improving efficiency of agricultural services and the
availability of technology to peasant farmers; and (b) supporting
improvements in the incentive framework for producers while minimizing any
adverse impacts on low-income consumers. The project focuses exclusively
on the peasant sector in the highlands and includes five main components:
(i) strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture's management of sectoral
services; (ii) expanding and strengthening the sectoral capacity to develop
and test technological improvements; (Iii) strengthening the delivery of
extension services, cooperative development, and watershed management
services to farmers in the Northwestern Zone; (iv) Improving the supply and
distribution of inputs, especially fertilizer; and (v) supporting the
continuous analysis of pricing policy and the management of grain reserves.
About 70X of projwc financing is dedicated to the purchase of fertilizer
and the rest to strengthening agricultural support services.
Estimated Prolect Costst
Components                          Local      Foreitn  Total   Z of Base
------(US$ million-------    Costs
Management of Sectoral Services       3.9        3.0       6.9      7
Technological Improvements            1.2        2.4       3.6      4
Del&very of Services in NW Zone       7.6        2.6      10.2    10
Imqroved Supply of Inputs            15.8       62.6      78.4    78
Prtce Studies and Policy Institute    0.2        0.3       0.5      1
________________________________
Baseline Costs                       28.7       70.9      99.6    100
Physical Contingencies                2.5        6.9       9.4      9
Price Contingencies                   2.8        6.8       9.6     10
---------------------------------
Total Project Costs                  34.0       84.6     118.6     19
of which taxes                       4.7                  4.7
…--------------------------------



- $1 - 
Local      Forgeln   Total
-- (US$ million ------
Financint Plan:
IDA                                    0.4       84.6      85.0
PDRE                                  33.6         0       33.6
__________________________
Total Financing                       34.0       84.6     118.6
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit (US$ million):
IDA Fiscal Year       FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Annual                13.3   16.0   19.0   20.0   9.0    4.0    3.7
Cumulative            13.3   29.3   48.3   68.3   77.3   81.3   85.0
Benefit Cost Ratios   2.0
Benefits:      The project is expected to generate large increases in grain
production and farmer incomes through the supply of fertilizers, support for
marketing reforms and improvements in services. The strengthening of M0A's
and AISCO's services would Improve their efficiency and expand their coverage
of farmers. The extensive training aspects of the project would augment the
local resources of trained tmanpower directly serving the peasant sector as
well as in Incentive policy analysis. Initially benefits to farmers would
accrue mainly in the areas of existing and potential grain surpluses.
Production Increases In the grain deficit areas would only materialize over
the longer term as the efficiency of the supporting services Improves and
their coverage expands. Consumers in urban and food deficit areas would
benefit from licreased grain supply and more stable prices.
Riskss         The main risks include:  (i) a reversal of the reform program
now being Implemented by the Government; (ii) inadequate production response
on the part of farmers due to social and political factors; (III) lack of
government resources to sustain projects activities; and (iv) negative
political interference in the technical and economic decision making process.
The project design provides safeguards to reduce these risks. While the risks
are real, the potential payoff of the project in a country w1th   large and
increasing structural food deficit is high and fully justifies taking the
risks involved.



CHAPTER I
THE ECONONY AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Economv
1.01   Ethiopia is Sub-Saharan Afri-3's second most populous country and
eleventh largest in size of GDP. In ftscal year 1987 (FY87), its GDP was
estimated at Birr 10,859 million (US$5,246 million), for a current population
of about 45 million. Ethiopia is one of the world's poorest countrIes, with a
per capita GNP of US$120 in 1987 and 602 of its population living below the
absolute poverty level. Health services in the country are limited and
require major improvements to combat high rates of morbidity and infant and
maternal mortality.11
1.02   Agriculture is the major contributor to GDP.  In normal years it
accounts for about 452 of GDP, followed by services (302) and manufacturing
(nearly 10x). While a large number of minerals are known to be present in the
country, to date none has been exploited on a large scale. The country's main
potential lies iu agriculture, and the natural conditions in many areas are
favorable to agricultural development.
B. Recent Economic Performaiice
1.03   Within the last five years, Ethiopia has had two serious droughts, one
in 1984 aud 1985 and a. ther in the latter half of 1987. During the first
drougLt, real GDP fell by about 102 and value added in agriculture declined by
252. Tnis loss was partially recovered in FY86, when real GDP grew by 6.71
and in FY87, when GDP grew by 8.12. However, duq to the second drought, real
GDP fell by about 22 in FY88. International donors responded to the first
drought and ensuing famine with a total of 1.4 million tons of emergency food
supplies in 1985 and 1986. In 1988, the Ethiopian Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission (RRC) requested 1.05 million tons in emergency food supplies.
1.04   Even in the decade before the droughts, economic performance was
unsatisfactory. Between FY75 and FY84, real GDP grew by 2.52 and real value
added in agriculture grew by 1.12, while the population grew by about 2.9% a
year. Real growth in industry, which includes building and construction
averaged about 3X a year, and growth in services averaged 42 a year. The
ratio of total investment to GDP has remained at about 112 for many years,
largely because of constraints on domestic and foreign financing. Over the
last eight years domestic savings has averaged only 32 of GDP, and per capita
development assistance (ODA) to Ethiopia has been much lese than thie average
for other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.05   Since 1981, regular imports of goods have risen to more than twice the
1/ For a detailed discussion of the economy, see Ethiopia: Recent Economic
Developments and Prospects for Recovery and Growth, February 1987, World
Bank Report No. 5929-ET.



-2-
vaii.;a of experts. This, together with increased borrowing at less
concessional terms, has resulted in an acceleration of the external debt
service ratio £rom 141 in FY84 to more than 50% in FY88. At the end of 1985,
total debt was approximately US$2.9 billion, or nearly 602 of GDP. The
external current account deficit, which had been maintained at between 5X and
92 of GDP after FY80 had risen to more than 10% in FY88. The overall budget
deficit, kept to less than 51 of GDP in the 1970s, had risen to an estimated
201 of GDP in FY88.
C. Tho Agricultural Sector
Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.06   Agriculture is the dominant sector in the economy. Beeides
contributing heavily to GDP, it provides 901 of total export earnings and 8*.'
of employment. In addition to supplying food and exports, agriculture also
heavily supports the industrial sector: around 701 of large and medium-sized
industries are agriculturally based. Hence satisfactory growth in the
agricultural sector is the key to improving food supply, exports, and
industrial growth.21
1.07   Agricultural development also is viewed as a way to reach the poorest
segments of the population since it ia virtually the only industry in rural
areas, where about 901 of the population lives. Inequity in land tenure was
eliminated with the 1975 land reform; this change has provided an opportunity
for ru.&l areas to achieve growth and equity simultaneously.  Ethiopia's
livestock population is the largest in Africa and plays a key role in human
nutrition. Livestock production is integrated with crop production in many
areas and is an important source of farm cash income. It also contributes
substantially to exports and industry.
Existing Production and Growth
1.08   Agricultural growth masured as real value added, averaged a little
over 12 a year between FY75 and FY84. During this decade non-coffee
agricultural exports declined sharply - coffee exports held up until FY85
aftex which they also declined sharply. The drought brought on real
reductions in agricultural GDP. The recovery of agriculture repeated in FY86
and FY87 was just enough to regain drought-related losses. The second drought
which struck in FY88, also reduced real agricultural GDP, by about 8.62.
1.09   Crop production a.ccounts for about two-thirds of agricultural GDP,
livestock production for about one-third.31 In the five years before FY85,
21 For a detailed discussion of agricultural sector performance, see
'Ethiopia: Agriculture - a Strategy for Growth, a Sector Review' (Green
Cover), World Bank Report No. 6512-ET, March 25, 1987; and "Ethiopia: An
Export Action Program", World Bank Report No. 6432-ET June 30, 1987.
2/ Except for food crops and coffee, data on agricultural production are in
complete, so annual changes cannot be measured with much confidence. An
accurate production index for Ethiopia has not been constructed; Livestock
figures repreaent the most serious gap.



food crop production averaged 6.9 million tons a year, or 0.3 million tons
more than during the five years beforet FY80. The annual production of ceroals
between FY80 and FY84 was 5.9 million tons compared to 4.0 milion tons
between FY69 and FY71. The respective production figures for pulses were 0.52
million tons and 0.87 million tons. The production of oil seeds plummeted
from 0.37 million tons a year between FY69 and FY71 to 0.1 million tons
between FY80 and FY84. Overall grain production, which includes coreals,
pulses and oilseeds declined to 4.5 million tons during the first drought
year. In FY87 it recovered to 6.9 million tons but declined again to 6.0
million tons during the most recent 4rought. The country currently has a
structural food daficit of about 1.0 million tons of grain equivalent per
year.
1.10   Agricultural development has suffered from a number of constraints in
the past. These constraints include: ti) inadec-=s p-r-nacticn incentives for
farmers; (ii) inadequate generation and application of new technologies; (iii)
weaknesses in support services to farmers; and (iv) lack of physical
infrastructure. The proposed PADEP I project is designed to alleviate some of
these constraints.
Resource Base
1.11  Most of Ethiopia's agriculture is practiced in the highlands; nearly
all crop production and almost three-fourths of livestock production take
place there. The highlands occupy about 401 of the total land area and form a
50 million ha plateau in the central part of the country about 1,500 meteai
above sea level. Annual rainfall there ranges from 500 to 1200 millimeters,
allowing the plateau to support almost 901 of the country's rural population.
Parts of the plateau in the north and northwest experience low rainfall and
have poor quality soils which contribute to unreliable crop production.
However, most of the arable soils have good potential for agricultural
production. The parts of Ethiopia located outside the highland consist of
arid and semi-arid lowlands populated by nomadic pastoralists who practice
little crop production.
1.12  Most of the high potential areas in the highlands receive 800-1,000 mm
of rain annually over six to eight months. The short rains (belg) fall mainly
between March and May, and the long rains (meher) fall between July and
October. The south and southwest produce most of the tree crops, particularly
coffee. These areas have deep loamy soils and receive heavier, better
distributed rainfall. The other parts of the highlands *roduce mainly
cereals. Soils throughout the highlands are mostly of vo.canic origin,
varying from red loams in hilly regions to heavy black clays in the valleys
and flatlands. Much of the highland soils and climate favor a highly
productive rainfed agricultural system.
1.13   Only 100,000 ha of the country's poterntial 2.2 million ha of land is
under irrigation. The topography varies from large, flat or gently undulating
areas, to steep tanges and deeply incised river valleys. This variation,
combined with the exploitative use of agricultural resources, has tesulted in
serious soil erosion and deforestation in many areas. These trends are most
severe in northern Shewa, Wolo, and Tigray regions. With the assistance of



the World Food Program (WFP), the Ethiopian Government is implementing large-
scale coimmunity schemes In an offort to reduce soil erosion and deforestation.
Farmer Orftanizations
1.14   Through the 1975 national reform progr&m all the land in the country
was nationalized and persons working the lands were given land use rights.
Large agricultural estates were converted into state farms which now cover
over 250.000 ha and produce about 32 of total crop output. 'n the private
sector the maximum amount of land a family may farm wss set at 10 ha, but
actual allocations are a lot smaller than this -- 1-2 ha per family of four or
five. Peasant associations, producer cooperatives and service cooperatives
were formed to 4id in land redistribution, production, and marketing
processes.  While the system ensures equity, it precludes security of tenure
which is often a constraint to investing in conservation measures. Two other
related issues -- resettlement and villagization -- are discussed in paras
1.30-1.33.
1.15   Peasant associations (PAs) have a membership of about 280 farm families
and generally cover about 800 ha of land. They are primarily responsible for
distributing land and adjudicating land disputes. So far, about 20,500 PAs
have been formed. Producer cooperatives (PCs) have an average membership of
about 82 farm families; they are formed by pooling together peasants'
resources and producing collectively. Their formation has been slow, despite
government efforts to encourage their development by offering them better
access to production inputs and consumer goods. They constitute only 42 of
peasant families and 6Z of harvested land and farm output. Service
cooperatives (SCs) are a collection of four or five PAs which join together to
distribute production inputs and consumer goods and to market produce. So far
about 4,1le  SCs have been organized, to serve a total of 4.5 million peasants.
1.16   The development of SCs has brought about profound changes in rural
social structures and could provide a basis for accelerating agricultural and
rural development. During the last three years the SCs have handled an
increasing volume of inputs -- a factor which has contributed to the large
increase in the use of fertilizers. However, the SCs face a number of
constraints in developing into effective organizations, the most important of
which is a lack of management, technical, and booskkeeping skills. They also
need to expand into larger organizations in order to benefit from economies of
scale, especially in raising capital and operating their businesses. The
process of becoming registered is a slow one but it is required for an SC to
gain access to credit. Ab,out 1,500 SCa, or 362, have been registered so far.
The slow registraticn partly reflects a lack of capacity at the Ministry of
Agriculture. However, it also reflects the comparatively high standards that
are set to ensure that SCs have adequate financial and management resources
before they are registered.
Institutions 3erving Farmers
;.17  The agricultural sector is served primarily by the agencies and
departments of MOA. However, there are institutions outside of MOA that also
provide important services to the sector. MOA is responsible for the



development of the peasant sector in the country, except in the main coffee
producing areas; there the Ministry of Coffee and Tea Development (MCTD) has
responsibility. The Ministry of State Farms Development (MSFD) is responsible
for state farms. The Relief and Rehabilitation Commission (RRC) handles
relief for people affected by natural and man-made disasters and manages the
resettlement of farmers.
1.18   MOA was decentralized in 1984 and broken down into eight zonal offices
and four Vice Ministries. The four Vice Ministries, or 'main" departments,
are: (a) Rural Infrastructure Development, (b) Cooperative Promotion and
Agriculture Development, (c) Animal and Fishery Resources Development, and (d)
Natural Resources Conservation and Development (Annex 4.1).  Although the
reorganization has strengthened the Implementation capacity of HOA, further
strengthening is required. Its preseat capacity is reinforced by the National
Committee for Central Planning (NCCP), which was decentralized earlier. NCCP
has planning zones which roughly coincide with the MOA zones.
1.19   Extension services are provided to the smallholder sector through the
MOA zones. These zones cover 14 administrative regions which include 110
districts (Awrajas) and 585 sub-districts (Woredas). Each zonal office is
directed by a zonal representative and supported by the four main technical
i       departments replacing the structure at headquarters.
1.20   The Atricultural Inputs Supply Corporat!.on (AISCO) was established in
late 1984 as an autonomous agency within MOA. It is responsible for procuring
and distributing inputs required by the peasant sector. Before AISCO was
established, the procurement and distribution of inputs for the peasant sector
was handled largely by the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC). To date
AISCO has focussed largely on fertilizer inputs, which account for over 90
percent of its sales. Its authorized capital is Birr 10 million, and Birr 7
million of this amount was supposed to be paid up in cash or kind. However,
only Birr 3 million has been subscribed in cash so far. The Corporation
consists of a headquarters in Addis Ababa and seven zonal offices paralleling
the MOA organizational structure. It currently relies on the 750 marketing
centers and stores and MOA staff to handle its marketing and distribution
activities at the SC level. AISCO only owns two main stores, at Kaliti and
Nazareth (near Addis Ababa), with a total storage capacity of about 20,000
tons. Input supply and distribution issues are discussed in paras 2.17-2.21.
1.21   The Institute of ARricultural Research (IAR) is responsible for
agricultural research, which has focussed largely on plant breeding,
particularly cereal varieties. New wheat and maize varieties have been
produced which are superior to local varieties over wide areas. However,
recent progress with new wheats, stimulated by old varieties succumbing to
disease, has been disappointing. Improved varieties of sorghum, barley and
tef also have been released, but their performance compared to local varieties
has been inconsistent, and their success tends to be confined to small, site-
specific areas. IAR has received substantial assistance from UNDP and other
lenders in the past. Beginning in 1984, the International Development
Association (IDA) has been financing an Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
1521-ET) in Ethiopia to strengthen IAR's research programs and the linkages
with MOA extension. The Ethiopian Government also has increased its provision
of financial resources for agricultural research and research stations. One
weakness in IAR's work has been inadequate linkages between research and



-6-
extension activities. This problem is being addressed through the appointment
of research extension coordinators (REC) and the establishment of research
extension liaison committees (RELC) at each main research center. Linkages
between research and extension are to be further strengthened and expanded
under the proposed project.
1.22   The Ethiopia Seed Corporation (ESC), which falls under MSFD, produces
and sells seeds of improved crop varieties.  Most of 1   seeds are actually
produced under contract on state farms, although some ,ontract production with
cooperatives has been initiated. ESC was established with the support of a
UNDP/FAO project and under HPP II (Cr. 1088-ET). Its effectiveness is limited
by a number of factors: lack of superior new seed varieties, poor seed
quality, weakly based demand estimates for calculating production
requirements, lack of control over production facilities, and financial
constraints. So far, around 64Z of ESC seed sales have been made to the state
farm sector. Only about 21 of small farmers use improved seeds, although
their use of these seeds has expanded in recent years. The limited demand for
improved seeds by smallholders reflects the absence of superior yielding
varieties for many grains and the comparatively high price of improved seeds.
However, t4e experience of the Training and Visit (T&V) pilot project
demonstrates that when superior new varieties of seeds are available, farmers
will buy them even at high prices. The production and supply of improjad
seeds is discussed in para 2.20.
1.23   The Agricultural Harketint Corporation (AMC) falls under the Ministry
of Domestic Trade (HDT) and is responsible for purchasing grain, pulses, and
oilseeds from the peasant and state farm sectors and distributing them to
urban commercial and domestic consumers. AMC purchases about 0.35 million of
the 1.8 million tons of marketable surplus generated by the peasant sector.
It buys these quantities at uniform prices set by the Government. Until 1988,
the Government severely restricted private traders' activities, especially
inter-regional trade between surplus and deficit food producing areas, and
reinforced this by progressively increasing the quota on compulsory deliveries
to AMC by farmers. This practice has resulted in marketing inefficiencies --
grain shortages and high open market prices in deficit regions coexisting with
grain surpluses and low open market prices in surplus regions, and high AMC
operating margins. In FY84 an efficiency study of AMC (financed under IDA
Credit 706-ET) made a number of key recomnendations for improving operating
efficiency and reducing operating costs. These recommendations include:
(i) reducing the number of collection points to those on all weather roads;
(ii) restricting purchases to those required for essential industries and for
the urban kebeles; (iii) introducing regional price differentials;
(iv) Improving transport utilization; and (v) streamlining management. These
recommendations are to be implemented with IDA support that has been requested
for the forthcoming PADEP II project.
1.24   The Government's Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) is
the major institution providing agricultural credit. However, in June 1986,
the Government directed that the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia CCBE) play a
leading role in providing short-term credit to the peasant sector, an area in
which it previously had had minimal involvement. AIDE r-tains all lending
responsibility for sector development and also provides short-term credit to



peasants who have previously acquired development loans from it. The SCa have
become an increasingly Important channel for the credit activities of the
peasant sector.
1.25 AIDB's agricultural business has focussed on lending to state farms,
although loan recovery from state farms has been poor. As a result, the
Government improved AIDB's capital structure a few years ago and relieved it
of much of the financial risk arising from the state farm portfolio. Now AIDB
derives most of its income from the fees paid to it by NBE for managing its
advances to finance state farms. Loan recovery from AIDB's lending to the
peasant sector in the past has been adversely affected by unfavorable terms of
trade for peasant farmers. This situation is expected to improve in the
future as producer incentives are improved.
1.26   Credit to the peasant s9ctor mainly has been extended for fertilizer
purchases and has fluctuated wi-h the demand for fertilizer. Total fertilizer
sales to the peasant sector increased from 947 tons in FY77 to 51,289 tons in
FY80. Sales fell to less than 32,000 tons in FY82 and increased again to
about 51,000 in FY87. The major factor affecting fertilizer consumption since
FY80 has been high input prices relative to producer prices. In the past,
farmers obtained credit for around 85Z of fertilizer purchases. Recently,
however, a cash payment incentive scheme has encouraged an increasing
proportion of farmers to pay cash for fertilizer. The amount of fertilizer
credit peaked in FY80 at Birr 26 million. MOA continues to play an important
role in promoting credit activities and even certifies SC credit applications
for fertilizer loans.
Agricultural Development Strateay
1.27   Past growth in food crop production has been inadequate because of
unfavorable weather, high input costs, and low producer prices. These factors
have led to inadequate production incentives, marketing prob.ems and limited
application of research and extension work. The Government's Ten-Year
Perspective Plan (TYPP) for FY85 to FY94 which was issued in 1984, gives
highest priority to attaining self-sufficiency in food grain production.
Expanding agricultural exports also commands high priority. The strategy
stresses the importance of the peasant sector and implementation of the
Ministry of Agriculture's Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP).
1.28   The purpose of the TYPP was partly overtaken by actions taken in
response to the drought emergency in FY85. Nevertheless, the plan calls for
an oveiall GDP growth rate of 6.51 a year and 4.3% annual growth in
agricultural GDP (5.71 growth in agricultural production). The plan does not
provide adequate analysis to support these growth rates but concludes, among
other things, that 'piecemeal land holdings, scattered living, and
organization problems make it difficult to provide the necessary services and
do not justify the use of modern implements." Other major objectives of the
plan include satisfying the raw material needs of domestic industry, expanding
exports of coffee, pulses, oilseeds, and livestock, increasing the number of
research stations, expanding resettlement efforts, augmenting irrigation,
establishing farm machinery stations owned and operated by the MOA, and
promoting labor-intensive technology. The revised rural credit policy which



-8-
became effective on August 15, 1988 urges the two banks to become aggressive
in providing rural credit and has introduced mechanisms to improve
coordination of the credit activities of both banks.
1.29   The first phase of the TYPP (the two-year plan, FY85-86) was adversely
affected by the drought and replaced with an emergency program announced in
November 1984. The Government launched a Three Year Development Plan in July
1986 as the second phase of the TYPP. The purpose of this plan was to
consolidate the recovery from the drought and overcome the long term
stagnation of the ecor.smy.41 It set targets of 6.3Z annual growth in total GDP
and 6.82 growth in agricultural GDP. A primary objective of the plan also was
to increase food production and, accordingly, agriculture was allocated 24Z of
the development expenditure -- the highest share for any sector.  The last
phase of the TYPP (the five-year plan) is being proposed and will be launched
in July 1989.
1.30   Resettlement.  In November 1984, the Government launched an emergency
resettlement program in response to recurrent drought and famine in the
droughtprone, overpopulated areas of the northeast. Two types of
resettlements were carried out: large scale formal settlements, and smaller,
integrated settlements. The largescale settlements were made on previously
unfarmed land, mostly in the lowlands of the west and northwest. The
integrated settlements were made mainly in the less populated western highland
regions. In the integrated settlements, small numbers of families were
integrated into existing PAs. This type of settlement was low in cost and
successful in allowing settler families to quickly become self-reliant. The
larger settlements on the other hand, proved to be costly and did not always
allow settlers to become self-reliant. The overall program turned out to be
expensive, was hastily implemented with inadequate preparation, and
encountered many logistical, health-related and sociological proilems. As of
June 30, 1985, some 500,000 people had been resettled.
1.31   Recognizing these difficulties, the Government suspended the
resettlement program in 1986 in order to consolidate existing settlements and
improve the planning of the implementing authorities -- primarily the MOA and
RRC. The target number of families to be resettled was then reduced from
300,000 families in November 1984 through October 1985 to 60,000 families per
year in the on-going Three Year Development Plan (FY87-89). But only 8,000
families were actually resettled in FY88 and consequently the target number of
families for resettlement has been revised downwards to 10,000 families each
year inx FY88 and FY89. Conceptually, the resettlement program is sound --
moving people from severely degraded, overpopulated and droughtprone regions
to unutilized, unpopulated areas of fertile land. However, implementation,
has been controversial due to inadequate preparation, allegations of families
being pressured to resettle, and the high cost of the program at a time when
alternative uses of the resources involved would have yielded higher short-
term benefits to the economy.
1.32   Villaxization.  According to the Government, the villagization program
is not a forerunner of forced collectivization, although cooperative
4/ For a review of the three-year plan, see 'Ethiopia - Public Investment
Program Review", World Bank Report No. 6859-ET, February 5, 1988.



- 9 -
production remains an important elioent of the Government's agricultural and
social development strategy. It has argued that villagization, among other
things, will allow more rapid and efficient help to be given in time of
drought. Other supposed advantages are: more cost effective provision of
social services, better access to roads, and more efficient provision of
support services such as extension, veterinary service, and input supplies.
It also is claimed that villagization will allow for improved land utilization
and modern mechanization, which will increase production in the longer term.
Villages have some advantages in the provision of services but both the short-
and long-term production benefits are overstated. Indeed, there are very real
risks of negative production effects in the short term: physical and
sociological disruption, concentration of livestock and associated risk of
overgrazing, increased distances from fields, and human health hazards. The
economic cost of the program to the nation is real and substantial while the
future benefits are uncertain.
1.33   Issues related to villagization, resettlement and land tenure will be
pursued further within the framework of the proposed National Agricultural
Resources Conservation Project.



CHAPTER II
PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. The Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP)
2.01     Formulation and Scope.  The origins of PADEP date back to 1982,
when it became apparent that there was a need to synthesize the experiences
of the various Regional Integrated Development (RID) projects and the
Minimum Package projects (IPPI and MPP II - Cr. 416-ET and Cr. 1088-ET).
These projects had been or were being implemented independently of each
other with financing from several external donors (notably IDA and the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)). They had so far been
partially successful in increasing production in the peasant sector by
providing better infrastructure, services, .nd inputs. They had also
demonstrated that their regional approach provided a viable framework for
decentralized management of services to the peasant sector. On the basis
of these initial successes, the government decided that the RID strategy
was appropriate for achieving its objective of increasing production in the
peasant sector. The country was divided into eight development zones and a
Task Force was established by MOA with financing from IDA (Credit 1088-ET
-- MPP II) to prepare integrated development projects for each zone. The
RID strategy and these development projects were the essential elements of
the government's Peasant Agricultural Development Program (PADEP).
2.02     Meanwhile, it was becoming increasingly apparent especially in the
light of developments under the then ongoing NPP II that the RID strategy
being pursued by the government was too narrow in scope to address the
really binding constraints on peasant sector production. The experiences
of the rural development projects demonstrated that improved services,
infrastructure and input supply were necessary, but not sufficient,
conditions for releasing tae production potential in the peasant sector.
Therefore, in 1982, IDA and the government entered into a long and
intensive policy dialogue on expanding the scope of PADEP to include
additional actions and policy measures that would enable the peasant sector
to achieve ajor increases in production and productivity.
B. PADEP Issues
2.03     The policy dialogue centered upon four major issues which were
considered critical to successful development of the peasant sector:
(i)   the incentives framework;
(ii)  sectoral management of support services;
(iii) inefficiencies in the input supply systems; and
(iv) problems of technology development.



- 11 -
The dialogue was supported by ongoing project experience, a number of
specific studies financed under ongoing IDA projects, studies conducted
jointly by the government and IDA, an Agricultural Sector Review by IDA,
*nd internal studies by the government.
The Incentives Framework
2.04     Incentives to the peasant sector for grain production was the
central issue in the dialogue. Since 1979, the marketing of grains in
Ethiopia has increasingly been conducted by MC through a compulsory quota
system and restrictions on private traders. All farmers are required to
sell a certain proportion of their marketable surplus grain production to
MC at prices fixed by the government. These prices were kept low for the
benefit of consumers in urban and other food deficit areas. Between 1979
and 1987, official producer grain prices remained virtually unchanged
despite substantial increases in the open market prices of grain and in the
prices of agricultural inputs and consumer goods. The effect of low and
declining (in real terms) procurement prices was reinforced by restrictions
on private merchant activities. In Arsi and Gojam, two of the three major
grain surplus regions, private merchants were not allowed to operate. More
importantly, movements of grain between the major surplus and consuming
regions by private merchants were prohibited. These restrictions created
inter-regional price differentials in the open market which could not be
explained on the basis of transport costs. Producer market prices in most
of the surplus producing areas were depressed, while opan market consumer
prices in deficit and urban areas were well above AMC's prices. Open market
prices were especially high in Addis Ababa, the largest market. The
combination of compulsory quotas, low prices, restrictions on trade, and a
scarcity of consumer goods in rural areas undermined the incentives for
farmers to inc:ease their use of improved inputs and raise the marketable
surplus.
2.05     Following an in-depth internal study of the grain marketing and
pricing issues, the government announced effective January 1, 1988, an
average increase of 7.71 in the official farmgate price for all quota
deliveries of grain (20X of marketed surplus) by farmers to AMC. More
Importantly, the restrictions on inter-regional grain trade were removed,
and grain merchants were licensed to operate in all the main grain
producing areas. Farmers now are allowed to sell any surplus grain in
excess of their quota allocation either to merchants or on the open market.
Also, from now on, the annual quota for each farmer will be allocated on an
area basis rather than on an estimated percentage of marketable surplus.
The quota for each level -- PA, Woreda, Awaraja and Region -- will be fixed
after taking into acccunt estimates for an acceptable quota at each level,
adjusted for the national requirements for essential industries and the
urban kebeles (consumer groups), and t-he handling capacity of AMC. The
government is making arrangements to refine the system and criteria for
fixing the annual grain quotas. Grain purchase task forces have been
establisted at each administrative level to oversee the fixing and delivery
of quotas and the licensing of grain merchants. Grain merchants are
licensed according to objective criteria and only are allowed to purchase
grain in areas where they are licensed to operate. However, they are free



- 12 -
to sell grain within and across regions provided they first sell 502 of
their grain and 252 of their oilseed purchases to AMC at the official
prices.
2.06     By liberalizing the grain trade, these reforms will benefit both
producers and consumers. Producers In the surplus-producing areas where
private traders were prohibited will benefit from large price increases on
the open market where thoy now may sell their 'after-quota' surplus. The
anticipated price increases (from quota and free market sales) are expected
to provide farmers in these areas with adequate incentives to adopt
improved technology and to increase their marketable surplus. Consumers in
urban and deficit areas will benefit from the increased supply brought in
by traders from the surplus areas. The impact already is being felt in
Addis Ababa, where open market prices have been lower than those prevailing
in the ame period in previous years. The supply of grain to these markets
also is expected to become more reliable, resulting in reduced price
fluctuations. The impact of these reforms and the need for further policy
changes are to be monitored and analyzed by a newly created Price Studies
and Policy Institute (PSPI).
Sectoral Mana2ement of Services.
2.07     MOA's capacity to effectively discharge its duties has steadily
improved in recent years. However, this improvement has not moved in
parallel with the increased number and complexity of responsibilities that
the Ministry must handle. A major effort is required to strengthen the
Ministry to effectively administer and implement agricultural development
programs and projects.
2.08     The country has a relatively skilled civil service, although the
exodus of trained and skilled staff in the years immediately following the
revolution initially weakened the capacity of the key agricultural
institutions, especially MOA. Moreover, the priorities given to state farm
development in the past reduced the pool of skilled staff available to
other agricultural development institutions. Staff motivation also has
suffered due to weaknesses in administration and management, lack of
operating funds, neglect of technical issues, and limited career
development opportunities. The government recently has taken a number of
steps to deal with some of these -roblems. In addition to reorganizing MOA
(para 1.18), budgetary allocations for operating costs have been increased.
Development activities for the peasant sector now concentrate on the high
potential areas, allowing greater efficiency in resource use. The impact
of these measures already can be seen in the improvement in extension
services and in the dramatic increase in fertilizer use. Nevertheless
further improvements in the management of sectoral services are required.
2.09     Staff Training and Development within MOA in the past has not
received the resources to continually upgrade staff skills. Recently
however, much staff in-service training has been included in projects and
program and MOA has initiated in-service training for higher level
management staff and for lower level administrative staff. These
initiatives would be expanded in forth coming externally financed projects.



- 13 -
2.10     Proiect Coordination. Monitoritz. and Evaluation is not well
developed in MOA despite orgnizational improvements and substantial
external support for institutional improvements. In FY88 MOA administered
an annual capital and recurrent budget of Birr 425 million which included a
large number of projects financed by several external donors. The Project
Coordination Division (PCD) within the Planning Prograaming Department
(PPD) has had only limited responsibility, and the coordination of projects
is loosely dispersed over the Main Departments. Project Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) has been hampered by increasing government reporting
requirements for the budget and work program and inadequate appreciatior' of
the role which M & E can play as a management and policy review tool.
2.11     MOA now has created a Project Coordivation, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PCMED) directly under the Minister which handles
these respcnsibilities for all externally financed projects.
Responsibilities for routine monitoring and reporting will remain with the
PPD (Annex 7.1). The M & E activities under projects will be incorporated
into a coherent M & E program under PCMED.
2.12     Financial Administration and Accounting Procedures have been
strengthened with external assistance from IDA and other donors. As a
result, presentation of MOA's sanual accounts has been improved and there
is a smoother flow of funds to the various departments and rural
administrative levels. However, the system, remains cumbersome and slow,
and financial data are not current enough to be effectively used for
management decision making.   The inroads in staff training and development
now make it possible to establish a systematic management information
system (MIS) for all the MOA departments and agencies. However, before
electronic data processing (EDP) is expanded within MOA, rationalization
and more coherent management must be instituted. Internal auditing
procedures and financial and administration staff skill at the zonal
Awaraja and Woreda levels also must be strengthened.
2.13     Procurement Procedures within MOA have created a bottleneck in
program and project implementation. PCD provides some support to MOA
project and programs involving foreign procurement.  Pevertheless ma  r
constraints remain, including a lack of capacity at the Procurement and
Property Administration Department (PPAU), which is officially responsible
for all MOA procurement, a lack of clear definition of the procurement
responsibilities of PCD, and the various departments implementing projects,
and a shortage of adequately trained and equipped staff.
2.14     Atricultural Extension within MOA has made the most progress in
recent years, although the service could be more efficient and
professional. Following intensive analysis and consultation with IDA
during the PADEP preparation and the successful outcome of a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension pilot project, the government decided in early 1986,
to adopt the T&V approach as the PADEP extension system and to immediately
extend it to 148 "food surplus Woredas" in the highlands. The PADEP
extension system embraces the main concepts of the T & V system but is less
intensive because of shortages of trained staff and financial resources and



- 14 -
logistical constraints. The ratio of extension agents, or Development
Agents (DAs) to farmers is about 1 to 1,300, staff training is not as
frequent, and subject matter snecialists (SMS) are not located within the
extension department. However, t'ie government has agreed to progressively
work towards the adoption of a more intensive system as current constraints
are overcome.
2.15     The application of the improved extension system has been
successful and it is now being expanded to 160 food surplus woredas.
However, a number of problems have emerged, which will be addressed within
the proposed PADEP I and II projects. First, all MOA Departments need to
be made aware of the key role of the MOA Agricultural Extension Department
(AED) in transferring improved technology to peasant farmers. Second, the
quality of staff training, especially for SMS, requires upgrading. Third,
the specific technologies for each agro-ecoiogical zone (AEZ) need to be
defined more clearly. Fourth, extension staff need to be relieved of
regulatory, administrative and other extraneous activities. Finally,
support services such as input supply and distribution, and access to
credit need strengthening.
2.16     Cooperative Development, despite the progress mdde so far, remains
constrained by administrative and financial weaknesses. MOA Peasant
Association and Cooperative Promotion Department (PACPD) is responsible for
promoting the organization of SCs and for providing support services,
especially staff training and bookkeeping. HOA also is required to provide
auditing services and to administer the SC registration regulations. In
this area, MOA staff have not been able to meet the demand, and a major
effort is now required to strengthen these aspects of MOA cooperative
supervision and to upgrade SC management and bookkeeping skills.   MOA
recently prepared a ianual on standard cooperative accounting and credit
administration. A large program to train MOA trainers and SC staff in the
use of the manual now is being implemented under the IFAD financed
Agricultural Credit Program. Continuation and expansion of this program
would be supported under the proposed project.
Efficiency of Input Supply
2.17     AISCO is responsible for the distribution of all agricultural
inputs to SCs and PAs. However, it has not yet developed the
administrative and operational systems needed to function as an effective,
independent organization. The demands on AISCO to continually expand its
product lines and volume of inputs have not been paralleled by improvements
in tne corporation's management and operational procedures.  Furthermore,
due to various operational changes, and to poor financial procedures,
AISCO's financial statements have not been kept current. Therefore, until
recently the actual financial position and requirements of the corporation
were not known.
2.18     An efficiency study and a logistics study recntly carried out for
AISCO have set out a program and strategy to bring about major improvements
in input supply and distribution. The strategy involves a government



- 15 -
pullback from grassrooto input distribution, with AISCO acting as an
importer and wholesale distributor and SCe handling retail sales to PAIPC
members. These objectives, will only be achieved, however, if AISCO is
allowed to maintain financial and management autonomy and improve
operational efficiency, and if improveme:._s in management are made at the
SC level,
2.19     Several other agencies besides AISCO and the SCs play critical
roles in the efficiency of the overall fertilizer supply and distribution
system. Closer cooperation is needed among all participants in the system,
including MOA, NdE, ONCCP and EPTC. The major improvements needed include:
(i) more accurate determination of demand by the SCs and MOA; (ii) more
timely initiation of procurement and the process for approving demand
requirements; (iii) timely availability of foreign exchange requirements;
(iv) elimination of port handling and transport bottlenecks; (v) better
control of stocks; (vi) prompter notification of 3ervice costs to AISCO;
(vii) more refined estimates of fertilizer requirements by crop and agro-
ecological zone (AEZ).
2.20     The low level of demand fo_; improved seeds has been attributed to
the high prices of the seeds and their unstable performance in relation to
traditional seeds. These problems of price and performance arise from
basic constraints in the improved seed production aid distribution chain.
These constraints pertain to: (i) the number of genuinely superior improved
varieties produced by IAR; (Li) the production of adequate quantities of
proven improved seed; (iii) accurate assessment of farmer demand and the
repeated failure of MOAIAISCO to purchase all of the Initial seed orders
made with ESC; (iv) coordination between ESC and MOA; (v) the absence of an
industry structure to impose standards for seed quality; (vi) the absence
of a coordinated development plan for the seed induetry; (vii) inadequate
ESC control over improved seeds; and (viii) lack of definition in the roles
of various actors in the seed industry especially IAR, MOA and ESC. The
government recently began to prepare a devalopment plan for the seed
industry (financed under PADEP PPF) to address these issues. The Italian
government has agreed to participate in financing implementation of the
plan. IDA's participation has been proposed for inclusion in the
forthcoming PADEP II project.
2.21     Agricultural Credit.  The involvement of the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia (CBE) in providing credit to the peasant sector has helped to
increase the availability of short-term credit to finance improved
production inputs. Through its wide branch network, CBE has helped tri
improve geographical coverage and efficiency in serving the peasant sector.
However, its involvement also has raised a number of operating issues with
AIDB, mainly involving markGt sharing and priority in receiving repayments
from common borrowers. The Credit Guidelines issued by the National Bank
of Ethiopia ( NBE) proved inadequate in dealing with these issues; they
have now been revised and became effective on August 15, 1988. While this
revision will greatly facilitate credit operations in the peasant sector, a
fundamental problem still remains, the inability of Service Cooperatives to
serve as financial intermediaries for their members and as a vehicle for
achieving economies of scale for services and income generating activities.
As the cooperatives develop, they diversify into activities such as flour



- 16 -
milling, cattle fattening, transport, and market gardening. These
activities require more complex finencial advice and training than can be
provided by MOA alone. As the principal and often sole creditors to the
cooperatives, the Banks (AIDB and CBE) should have a. interest in
developing the financial management capacity of their client cooperatives.
An initial step in this direction has been taken through joint AIDBI/CBE
involvement in the ongoing cooperative training program (par- 2.16). This
effort needs to be greatly expanded to be of major benefit to the
cooperatives.
Problems of Technology D relopment
2.22    Agricultural production systems in the peasant sector  are
characterized by a fairly low level of technology. The use of animal
traction is widespread in crop production, but despite recent rapid
increases in fertilizer sales, the average application rate in the
highlands is still only about 50kglha. Very few improved seeds are used by
farmers. However, as demonstrated under several projects, farmers are
willing to adopt improved technologies if it is in their economic interest
to do so. A major problem in the past, aside from incentives, has been the
availability of proven technological packages. These packages often have
not been available because of lack of coordination among the various
institutions concerned and inadequate budgeting support.
2.23     The main research institution, IAR has suffered from a number of
problems, including a changing institutional framework, weak policy
direction and, unsatisfactory management. Trained manpower also has been a
constraint in some areas of research -- a situation exacerbated by the post
revolution exodus of manpower and the government's reluctance to give long-
term research a higher priority in resource allocation. Moreover, the
ibsence of linkages between researchers and extension has complicated the
dissemination of known technology in a country where access to large
numbers of the farming population is difficult. Some of these
dissemination issues are being addressed under the IDA-financed
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1521-ET), which focuses on strengthening
research programs and their linkages with extension. Research/extension
linkages also are being strengthenet through the recent appoiatment of
research extension coordinators (REC) and the establishment of research
extension liaison committees (RELC) at each main research center.
2.24    Another major constraint on the development of appropriate
technological packages, especially for foodgrains in Ethiopia, is the wide
variation in agro-ecological conditions across the Central Highlands, the
main foodgrain growing area. Even within each major Agro-Ecological Zones
(AEZ) differences in elevatior, temperature, and length of growing season,
affect the performance of improved seeds and fertilizer applications.
These wide variations in agro-ecological conditions require location-
specific recommendations which in turn require extensive adaptive testing.



- 17 -
2.25     The separate adaptive research programs of MOA and IAR were
streamlined under (MPII) into a more effective National Field Trials
Proaram (NFTP). The NFTP is managed by MCA with assistance from IAR and is
based on a more systematic definition of AEZs. The program is designed to
supplement IAR crop research through adaptive trials conducted by MOAILAR
as well as on-farm trials and demonstrations. Funding for the continuation
of the program is provided under the Fourth Livestock Development Project.
2.26     The on-farm trials are supplemented by extensive surveys thar
examine farming systems, constraints facing farmers, and factors
influencing their decision making. An improved data collection and
processing system is being put in place to permit prompt analysis and
dissemination of conclusions and recommendations.
2.27     MOA Rural Technology Promotion Department (RTPD).  Rural
technology promotion by HOA was started in 1985, with the establishment of
RP1D within the Rural Infrastructure Main Department.  The matn tasks of
RPTD are to: (i) develop and promote small-scale agricult.ural implements
and machinery; and (ii) promote small-scale rural energy technology. A
rural technology promotion program is operating in seven zones and two
administrative regions. It includes 7 rural technology promotion ceanters,
25 rural technology testing and promotion centers, and 120 farmers'
technical service stations at service cooperatives. The program has
rezeived some eupport from the EEC. The production of appropriate improved
farm implements is done on a small scale in the zonal technology centers.
There is considerable potential for Improving the productivity of land,
labor and oxen through the use of improved farm implements. Past work in
this field has not been very successfu_. because the implements produced
either were too heavy for peasant farm traction resources (oxen, horses) or
were too exponsive for individual farmers to purchase. Moreover, the
implements produced did not address those constraints in the farm
production system which farmers considered were the main bottleneck. The
rural technology program has been revised according to the results of
surveys which have defined these constraints more precisely. Further
refinement is currently being examined by an international consultant
financed under the PADEP PPF.
2.28     Hithland Degradation is a major technological problem.  Farming
practices and population pressures over the centuries have led to serious
degradation over large areas of the highlands. Sinces the mid 1970s, MOA
has, with the assistance of World Food Program (WFP) and other external
donors including IDA, successfully implemented a large soil and water
conservation program centered in the severely degraded food deficit areas
of the highlands. Under the program farmers have been paid food for work
in constructing physical structures -- soil bunds, gully control
structures, check dams -- and stock exclusion areas have been reforested.
The program has focused on complete watersheds rather than administrative
boundaries. In 1983-85 the government completed a comprehensive study of
the degradation issue -- the Ethiopia Highlands Reclamation Study (EHRS),
executed by MOA and FAO (under Cr. '03-ET). The study highlighted the
massive extent of degradation and the serious risk to va3t areas of highly
productive soils in the highlands. The study stressed tihe need to protect
these areas and called for 'conservation-based development" to be
implemented throughout the country.



- 18 -
C.  Z.tatua of Don3r Assistance
2.29     After a lengthy policy dialogue on the issues discussed above, the
Ethiopian government and IDA have now reached broad agreement on the scope
of the strategy for development of the peasant sector, and this proposed
project supports the expsnded PADEP strategy. The government has
recognized the importance of incentives and has introduced major reforms in
marketing and price increases for official purchases. The success of these
reforms and the future of PADEP will depend crucially on the provision of
support from external donors for the necessary inputs and services which
will allow the peasant sector to respond to these improvements. The EEC is
providing assistance for the (regional aspects of PADEP) in the Central
zone, including the foreign exchange financing of all fertilizer
requirements. The Italian government is providing similar financing for
the Southeastern Zone and some assistance to the Seed Industry. Aid from
the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) is to be used for
operations in the Northeastern Zone. The Small Scale Irrigasion and
Conservation Project financed by IFADIIDA (Cr. 1765-ET) includes the
essential regional elements of PADEP in Hararghe in the Southeast.
2.30     Assistance from IDA is being sought for regional activities in two
high potential zones, the North West and West, and for the sectoral aspects
of PADEP which are vital to the success of the regional programs. The
project proposed in this report -- PADEP I -- addresses the most pressing
of the sectoral aspects and provides support for regional activities in the
Northwesterr. zone (Gojam and Gonder) which have more potential (in the
short run) than the Western Zone to increase production. A subsequent
project, PADEP II, is scheduled for appraisal in 1989; it would provide
support for the Western Zone and for other services at the sectoral level
-- marketing development, the production of improved seeds,further
technological improvements, and the fertilizer sub sector.
2.31     Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The objectives of IDA assistance
for Ethiopian agriculture are to: (a) increase production and productivity
in the peasant sector; (b) improve the incentive framework, marketing
conditions, and the general economic and institutional environment for
agricultural development; and (c) increase foreign exchange earnings and
savings.
2.32     IDA's portfo:io in the agriculture sector of Ethiopia consists of
19 projects to date. Several past and ongoing operations are of direct
relevance to PADEP and the proposed project. Two minimum package projects
cofinanced with IFAD and SIDA (Cr. 416-ET and Cr. 1088-ET) were designed to
increase peasant agricultural production in the highlands. The projects
focused on strengthening the institutional and technical foundation for
peasant agriculture by providing material support and technical assistance
for extension, applied research, seed multiplication, input supply, and
soil and water conservation activities. The conclusions of the Project
Completion Report of the Second Minimum Package Project (Cr.1088-ET) were
that while certain parts of the projects



- 19 -
proceeded well, such as soil conservation and institutional support, in
general achievements fell short of expectttions. The production impact was
reduced due to the adverse incentive envirosment which developed during the
life of the project and which has only been recently corrected. Grain
storage and marketing activities were strengthened under Cr. 789-ST. Other
projects for coffee development, drought recovery, irrigation, research,
and livestock have helped to broaden the sectoral dialogue and develop
joint (IDA/PDRE) experience in institutional strengthening and the delivery
of services to thse peasant sector.
2.33     The experience gained from these operations and the extensive
sector dialogue have been major guiding factors in expanding the scope of
PADEP and the proposed project to include key sectoral issues. The PADEP
approach under its present expanded scope provides a viable framework for
implementing development in the peasant sector. IDA's ainvolvement in PADEP
is critical to maintaining the government's initial actions to improve the
incentive framework. The two PADEP projects proposed for IDA financing
would make major contributions to IDA's objectives in the sector. The
proposed composition and phasing of IDA involvement would allow critical
areas in the global PADEP strategy to be addressed in order of priority.
The sectoral aspects -- policy and incentives analysis, sectoral management
and adwinistration, and input supply -- would reinforce a number of other
ongoing IDA-supported activities and would also complement agricultural
development projects financed by other donors.



CHAPTER '11
THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives and Components
3.01     The proposed project would be an integral part of the government0s
strategy for accelerating development of the peasant sector and increasing
agricultural output. It would support recent reforms in grain pricing and
marketing and contribute towards facilitating the production response by the
peasant sector. The primary objectives of the project are to increase
foodgrain production, productivity and incomes in the peasant sector. The
strategy for achieving these goals is to: (a) improve efficiency in the
management and delivery of agricultural services; (b) improve the technology
available to farmers; and (c) support further improvements in the incentive
framework for producers while minimizing any adverse impacts on consumers.
3.02     To accomplish these goals, the project would comprise the following
main components:
(a)       Strengthening MOA's management of sectoral services:
(i) project coordination, monitoring and evaluation;
(.ii) financial control; (iii) production of extension
materials; and (iv) ext-ension and cooperative
development;
(b)       Expansion of the sectoral capacity to test technological
Improvements: (i) national field trials; and (ii) rural
technology promotion;
(c)       Support for the delivery of services in the north-
western zone: (i) extension services; (ii) cooperative
development; and (iii) soil conservation watershed
management;
(d)       Improved input supply: (i) increased farm inputs; (ii)
improved delivery by AISCO; and (iii) better credit
support from AIDB; and
(e)       Support for continuous pricing policy analysis and grain
reserve management.



- 21 -
B. Detailed Features
Ministry of Agriculture Manatement of Sectoral Services
3.03     A major thrust of project activities would be improving MOA's
central services at headquarters to improve the overall management of
sectoral activities and to provide better technical and administrative
support to field offices. Institutional support would include
strengthening service cooperative development and training, agricultural
extension, fitancial administration and control, editorial and publication
services, and training and manpower development for all components.
Support to the newly established Project Coordination and Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PCMED) would assist with improving the coordination
and administration of all MOA programs and projects, and project monitoring
and evaluation.
Proiect Coordination, Monitorint and Evaluation
3.04     Proiect Coordinatioin.  Specific support for the PCMED under the
project would include provision of three vehicles, office and analytical
equipment, short and long term staff training, selected operating costs,
and 18 staff months of technical assistance for project coordination. A
project procurement and administration advisor employed in MOA would be
financed for 12 staff months pending the outcome of the study on
reorganizing and strengthening MOA's Procurement and Property
Administration Department (PPAD). An internationally recruited Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) specialist would help to strengthen these activities
both at HOA headquarters and in the zones. Operating arrangements for the
PCMED are discussed in paras 4.04 and 4.05.
3.05     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under the project, the (M&E) Division
of the Planning and Programming Department (PPD) would be transferred to
the newly created PCMED (para 4.04).  The new department would coordinate
the monitoring of the Implementation and the evaluation of the impact of
all MOA projects including PADEP I.  The project M&E activities at the Zone
would be done by the M&E staff of the Zonal and Awraja PPDs (the PCMED will
not exist at the Zone or Awraja; M&E staff will remain in PPD). Support
would also be given to the PPD Social and Economic Research Division both
at HQ and in the NW Zone, to strengthen the farm management survey
activities which would be expected to provide much of the data required for
measuring the project impact. PADEP M&E activities support would include
provision of equipment, office furniture, vehicles, specific operating
costs -- vehicle operating, per diem, travel, office requisites -- and
staff training, both local and overseas, and 36 staff months of technical
assistance (TA) both at Headquarters and in the NW zone. Substantial
financial support for MOA M&E activities is available under existing
IDAIIFAD projects (Cr. 1782-ET, Cr. 1765-ET) and those funded by other
donors (EEC, AfDB, SIDA). Together with additional funds provided under
PADEP I, MOA would combine these resources, including the TA, to implement
a coherent operational strategy for meeting all of MOA's project
requirements. M&E implementation arrangements are discussed in para 4.34.



- 22 -
Financial Control and Administration
3.06     While the financial and accounting procedures of MOA have been
strengthened with external assistance, the management information system
remains slow and financial data are not current.  The electronic data
processing (EDP) system needs to be redesigned and improved. The system is
currently being reviewed by a consultant financed under the PPF.
Implementation arrangements for strengthening MOA Finance Department
activities are discussed in para 4.06.
MOA Extension Materials Production and Services
3.07     The existing MOA capacity to edit and print extension and other
materials -- reports, handbooks, reference sheets, publicity posters,
stationery -- required by the many departments and agencies, especially the
expanding extension service, is inadequate. Also, the quality of the
publications requires upgrading. Under PADEP I, a semi-autonomous unit,
the Printing and Editorial Service (PES) would be established within the
Information and Public Relations Department (IPRD) to provide about 60
percent of the current and future printing and editorial services required
by MOA. The balance would be contracted outside the Ministry thereby
providing some comparison of quality and price competitiveness of the MOA
internal unit. Adequate accommodation is available in the new facilities
now being occupied by MOA. The project would finance the required
equipment, office furniture, staff training and specific operating costs.
The TA and initial staff training required, including an initial
maintenance contract (2 years), would be included in the equipment
suppliers contract. Establishment, including staff training and
recruitment and equipment procurement, would be phased in over three years.
The design of the program is currently being reviewed by a consultant
financed under the PPF. Additional operating and implementation
arrangements are discussed in para 4.07.
MOA Headquarters Cooperatives and Extension Development
3.08     MOA Headquarters Service Cooperative Development.  Service
Cooperatives (SCs) would play a prominent role as intermediaries between
government agricultural support services and individual farmers. SCs
would, on a progressive basis, increasingly assume the role of AISCO and
NOA in retail input supply and distribution and related production credit
administration. To ensure SCs are adequately equipped to provide cost-
effective services to members, bookkeeping and management standards require
improvement, the number of SCs eligible to receive production and
development credit from the banks needs to be increased (36 percent
currently registered nationally), and functional collaboration among SCs
needs developing to reduce the cost of services to members. Under the
project, the MOA Peasant Association and Cooperative Promotion Department
(PACPD) would implement a comprehensive program of staff training and
development (coop accountants, auditors, organizers), and training SC staff
-- bookkeepers, storekeepers, executive members. The EQ PACPD would also
be strengthened with additional staff, equipment and staff training.



- 23 -
Initially, priority would be given to activities in the MOA NW and Western
Zones. The project would finance staff training, vehicles, (2 autos, 20
motorcycles) equipment, teachingitraining materials, specific operating
costs and limited TA (6 months).
3.09     MOA HQ Atricultural Extension.  The MOA AED headquarters is
expected to play an increasingly important role in supporting extension
activities in the Zones and in specific projects. It is also the vehicle
through which MOA agricultural extension policy and strategy decisions are
transmitted to the Zonal administrations. The Department is expected to
assist with supporting Zonal SMS training and with providing TA to the
Zones as required. Under the project, the Department would be strengthened
through providing vehicles (2), audio-visual and office equipment, overseas
and local staff training, specific operating costs and short term technical
assistance. Additional senior staff (2) would be appointed to fill
existing vacancies, thus enabling AED to provide more effective support to
the Zonal and project extension activities. Mobility would be improved as
would the capacity to provide staff training support as required by the
Zones. Two local fellowships would be financed. The project would also
provide two audio-visual units (1 for NW zone) to assist with Zonal and
Awraja staff training and with extension promotion among the farming
community. The cost of these units would include limited TA and staff
training by the supplier. Also, AED HQ is responsible for organizing and
implementing the pro-season training for all DAs and SMS involved in the
'food self-sufficiency' program. On average, about 2,000 DAs and about 450
SMS annually would be trained under the project.
Technoloas Development
3.10     Field Trials Program.  The MOA National Field Trials Program
(NFTP), initiated under MPP II and continued under FLDP (Cr. 1782-ET),
would be supported under the project. Over five years, it is planned that
the field trials program would develop about 65 field trial sites in
conjunction with about 200 intermediate trials, some 560 on-farm trials and
about 1,100 farmer demonstrations in seven main AEZa covering all of the
main high potential cropping areas of Ethiopia. In addition, about 24
alley cropping trials and 18 irrigated crop trials would be established
under the project. Field support under the project would focus primarily
on the NW zone. Headquarters support would include provision of vehicles,
technical equipment and staff development. The field trial and farm system
survey activities of IAR, NFTP and the MOA National Fertilizer and Inputs
Unit (NFIU) would be more closely coordinated so as to avoid duplication
and to ensure a more coherent field trials system (para 4.13). The project
would provide at the trial site equipment, fences, small offices and
stores, trial inputs, vehicles, specific operating costs and both local and
overseas stcff training. Adequate funding is available under FLDP for the
required TA staff. TA support would focus on developing a local staff
capacity to implement the NFTP with only limited outside specialist
support.



_ 24 -
3.11     Rural Technoloay - Improved Peasant Farm Implements.  Under PADEP
I, support would be given for spearhead activities In the NW snd Western
Zones under the MOA rural technology promotion program (para 2.27). These
activities would prepare the way for an accelerated program under PADEP II.
A range of promising prototype implements successfully used in similar
environments and which have potential for adaptation to Ethiopian
conditions would be Imported under the project.  About 15  mall farmer
technical service stations (small workshop, tools, equipment) would be
established at selected SCs and equipment provided for the existing Zonal
Rural Technology Promotion Centers in Jima (west) and Bahr Dar (north-
west). Staff training, vehicles and short term TA would also be provided.
The overall program is currently being reviewed by an internationally
recruited consultant financed under the PADEP PPF. Upon completion of this
study, MOA an4 IDA would exchange views on the iin findings and
recommendations arising therefrom and agree on an action program including
the detailed costs and implementation arrangements. An assurance to this
effect was obtained from the GCovernment during negotiations.
North-West Zone Support Services
3.12     Agricultural Extension.  The existing service would be
Strengthened and expanded in the NW Zone comprising the administrative
regions of Gojam and Gonder. The project activities would start in 27
Woredas and, over five years, would be progressively expanded until a total
of about 40 high potential Woredas would be included. Additional high
potential Woredas would be phased into the project as the criteria
described in para 4.16 are met. The extension system is a modification of
the training and visit (T&V) approach.   It is being implemented nationally
in the 160 "food self-sufficiency' Woreda program which was initiated by
MIOA in FY88. It is largely based on lessons learned in Ethiopia from
extension components of previous projects (MPP I and MPP II, WADU, I/ ARDU 21
and from the pilot T&V extension project implemented under MPP II. The
goal would be to make existing staff more effective through improved
training and supervision, deploying staff closer to farmers, providlng
appropriate equipment and transport, ensuring a reliable supply of farm
inputs is available and ensuring that the messages translated by the
extension staff to farmers are both technically and economically viable.
3.13     At the Zone, the HOA Head, Agricultural Extension Team Leader is
the Zonal Extension Coordinator (%EC) who coordinates the ove-all service
operation including the provision of SMS from other departments as
required. The ZEC provides the technical link between the Zone and the AED
HQ. Under the project, the ZEC would be supported by three SMS including
an extension training SMS. These SMS would be members of the AED. At the
Awraja, the Awraja Extension Coordinator (AEC) plays a similar role;
coordinating the Awraja SMS who, although belonging to different
departments, form part of an SMS team supporting the extension service.
11 Wolaita Agricultural Development Unit (Cr. 486-ET).
2/ Arsi Rural Development Unit - SIDA.)



- 25 -
The AEC also supervises the Woreda Extension Coordinator (WEC). Awraja
based SMS receive quarterly training from MOA Zonal SMS and HQ staff
supported, vhere applicable, by IAR research staff and by TA staff. The
Avraja based SMS team visit the Woredas on a time structured basis and
conduct monthly training for the DAs based at the SCs in the Woreda.
3.14     At the Woreda, the WEC Is assisted by an extension supervisor who
supervises the DA activitieos. Where the number of DAs exceeds 10-12, two
supervisors are deployed. DAs are deployed at SCs which provide a local
house and a small office facility. Each DA services about 1,300 farm
families comprising on average, four to five PAs including PCs. DAs make
regular visits to each PA every 14 days and work through contact groups
each comprised of 6-8 contact farmers. Each DA services 5-8 groups and
each contact farmer has about 30-40 followers. Contact farmers are
selected by DAs in consultation with PA members. Selection criteria stress
the need for enthuslasm, ability to read and write and the degree of
adopting farming innovations. DAs receive one day's training each month
from the Awraja-based SMS. The training and the DA activities cover a
range of subjects Including crop production and protection, animal
husbandry and livestock production, soil conservation and so on. Woreda
extension staff, including the DAs, are involved with implementing the NFTP
on-farm demonstrations. Where an NFTP intermediate trial is established, a
trials technician is based in the Woreda and is responsible for managing
the trial Including data recording. Under PADEP, the quality of the
extension training would be improved through the appointment at AED HQ and
in the Zone of suitably qualified extension training specialists and
training materials support. Also, to assist with improving the technical
knowledge and skills of the Zonal and Awraja SMS, a technical reference
library would be established at the Zone HQ in Bahr Dar.
3.15     Continuous in-service training would be a feature of the extension
component. By project year three, as the quality of the SMS is upgraded,
as the number of qualified extension training SMS expand and as the
technology development gathers pace, regular training of SMS would be
conducted monthly and for the DAs, fortnightly. Special induction and
orientation training is planned for project start-up activities financed
under the PFF. PADEP orientation seminars have been held in the NW and
Western Zones for Administrative leaders and heads of concerned agencies --
Planning Commission, AIDB, CBE, AMC, ESC, Workers Party of Ethiopia
secretaries, senior MOA and IAR staff. PADEP extension induction courses
for MOA staff and IAR Research Extension coordinators would be held; for
Woreda staff 15 days training, and for Zonal and Awraja staff 20 days. The
skills of Awraja SMS (70) would be upgraded with special training (40 days)
in fields such as livestock production, crop production and protection,
animal husbandry, natural resource conservation. Preparation of extension
training activities is being assisted by an internationally recruited
extension training consultant financed under the PPF (6 months).
3.16     Improving the mobility of all extension staff would be an
important element of extension support under the project. Vehicles would
be provided for HQ AED (2) and for Zonal AED and Awraja SNS (15). Woreda
extension staff would receive motorcycles (40) and DAs bicycles (34) or



- 26 -
mules (250) depending on the terrain. DAs (465) would be equipped with an
extension kit and office equipment and furniture as required. Training
equipment would be provided for training activities at the Zone and the
project Awraja and Woreda offices. The project would also finance limited
overses training and local post graduate training costs. A mobile audio-
visual unit financed under the project would be used to support all staff
training activities.  Specific operating costs would be financed under the
project -- travel, offico supplies, vehilel operation. Additional
extension implementation procedures are discussed in paras 4.08 and 4.14 -
4.15.
3.17     Service Cooperatives. Under PADEP, strengthening the 475 SCs in
the 40 potential project Woredas in Gojam-Gonder would be an important
objective. Currently 297 (62S) of the SCs are registered, well above the
national average. All SC bookkeepers would be trained in the use of the
standard accounting and credit administration manuals. Annual refresher
training for all bookkeepers would also be conducted for 10 days.
Similarly, regular training program. would be held for SC committee
members. About three members from each SC would attend these annual
training courses (5 days) conducted by MOA Cooperative staff assisted, as
appropriate, by CBE, AIDB and AISCO staff. Over five years over 2,300 SC
staff and executive members would receive training. MOA PACPD (HO.) has
prepared a comprehensive national training program to upgrade the standards
of all MOA Cooperative accountants and auditors. An initial 35 staff have
recently completed a "trainers, course conducted by the Ethiopian Institute
of Management (EIM). These trainers are now to conduct similar courses for
MOA PACPD staff in the Zones and Awrajas, who will then proceed to train
the Woreda and SC staff. About 190 MOA Cooperative auditors and 40 MOA
cooperative accountants would be retrained and upgraded under the project.
Nearly 60 MOA Cooperative bookkeepers would be upgraded to become
accountants. In total about 290 MOA Cooperative staff, most of whom would
be from the North-west and Western Zones, would be trained under the
project. Cooperative auditing and accounting in the project Zone would be
strengthened with the appointment of an auditor and an accounts supervisor
to each participating Awraja (12), and an accountant to each Woreda (40).
They would be progressively deployed as trained staff become available. To
expedite the auditing and registration of SCs, Zonal accounting task forces
were established in both the NW and Western Zones. The task forces include
staff from MOA, CBE, and AIDB, and their activities are financed from the
PPF. The project would provide vehicles (2), motorcycles (64) for Awraja
and Woreda staff, office equipment and furniture, support for specific
operating costs, training and short-term TA. A six month consultancy would
assist MOA PACPD to design and prepare training materials to assist
training both for MOA and SC staff. An additional 3iX month. TA (financed
under the PADEP PPF) is assisting with strengthening the overall MOA
Cooperative training programs.
3.18     Bure-Silala Soil Conservation and Watershed Management. Arising
from the Ethiopian Highland Reclamation Study (para 2.28), MOA now proposes
to implement a comprehensive conservation-based agricultural development
strategy. Within the productive but serious "at risk" 10,000 ha Bure
watershed in Gojam, a 2,500 ha sub-watershed -- Silala -- has been selected
for implementing spearhead activities for this strategy which would lead to



- 27 -
the preparation of a wider program to be incorporated in a National
Agricultural Resources Conservation Project proposed for IDA financing.
The Bure-Silala watershed contains a range of agro-ecological zones and
fartming systems. The objectivo would be to use the watershed as a
practical field laboratory for planners, MOA professional staff and
famers. And, through testing anu practical experience, to develop a
tecnlically, economically and socially acceptable strategy for Implementing
conservation based development throughout the highlands. In addition to
physical structures and afforestation, the program would focus on involving
the community in planning and Implementation of conservation based
development and farming. Community education on the c--as, costs and
seans of combatting the problem and tho benefits to bt octained from
preventive measures would be stressed. Special attention would be given to
evaluating the Impact of the program on crop and livestock production, on
family Incomes and on the soil and chemical content of the watershed
runoff. Once successfully launched in this sub-watershed, the program
would be progressively extended to cover most if not all, of the 10,000 ha
Bure watershed. The project would finance equipment, vehicles, buildings,
Inputs for payments of public works, staff and community training, specific
operating costs and part of the cast of preparing the nationwide
Agricultural Resource Conservation Project. Implementation procedures are
discubsed in para 4.18.
ImProved Input Supply
3.19     Fertilizer and Crop Protection Inputs.  DuriL the last three
years (FY85-FY87), peasant sector fertilizer use has increased by an
av.  oe of 29 percent annually, from nearly 49,000 tons in FY85 to almost
105,000 tons FY87. Fertilizer demand for the FY88 year was expected to
oxceed 150,000 tons but, due to unexpectedly high procurement prices,
foreign exchange for only 125,000 tons of the original order of 150,000
tons could be secured (including both donor and PDRE own resources). Thus,
for the current season, an unsatisfied demand of 25,000 tons exists. The
rapidly increasing demand for fertilizer is due to a number of factors
ILclulding: (a) the high grain prices on the Addis Ababa open market to
which farmers In Shewa and, to a lesser extent, Arsi, have continued to
have access (Arsl and Shewa together account for around 60X of total
fertilizer consumption on average); (b) the price stability of fertilizer
and Improved supply and distribution performance by AISCO; (c) improved
access to production credit, and (d) MOA effectively implementing the
PADEP' extension system in 14' "f*od self-sufficiency' Woredas throughout
the high potential regions of the country. Demand is expected to reach
around 260,000 tons by FY92 due to (a) the implementation of the grain
marketing and pricing reforms which is expected to increase the average
farm gate price for all grains in Arsi, Gojam -nd many parts of Shewa
especially (these three regions account for 75-80% of total peasant sector
fortilizer consumption); (b) the simultaneous implementation of PADEP
projects through the highlands; (c) improvement in AISCO's supply and
distribution performance; (d) further improvement in farmer access to
production credit due to expanding bank coverage and to improvements in
cooperative performance in the high potential ragions; (e) expected
refinements in fertilizer use technology due to the work of IAR, NFTP and
NFIU, and increased production (ESC) and use of improved seed varieties;
and (f) increasing effectiveness of the MOA extension service.



- 28 -
3.20     As increasing fertilizer use is sGen as the key to rapidly
lncreasing crop production, PADEP I would provide substantial support for
fertilizer imports. Fertilizer purchases for the peasant sector are
projected to be about 175,000 tons in FY89, 18d,000 tons in FY90, 218,000
tons in FY91, 253,000 tons in FY92 and 280,000 tons in FY93. Over the five
year period IDA would finance an average of 492 of incremental
requirements. IDA's financing would cover direct foreign exchange costs
only and would be on a declining basis from 100Z of incremental
requirements in FY89 to 21X in FY93. The estimated amount to be financed
by IDA would be 242,000 tons over five years. Additional inputs would
Include the procurement of about 5,000 hand sprayers together with
pro ective equipment and spare parts, for sale to SCs and subsequent use by
individual farmers. Also under the project, PDRE would conduct a
comprehensive review of the fertilizer sub-sector with a view to improving
efficiency through developing a coherent strategy for, inter alia, pricing
and marketing, storage, transport and distribution, more precise definition
of fertilizer types and form (bulk, bagged, etc) to be imported and the
role of various actors (para 4.23). Implementation procedures for
fertilizer procurement and financing are discussed in para 4.22.
Delivery Services
3.21     Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO). PADEP I would
finance the first phase of a longer-term AISCO stores and transportation
development program. Stress would also be placed on simultaneously
improving AISCO's administration and management efficiency including stock
control and procurement procedures. The objective would be to provide the
investment and institutional support to AISCO necessary to ensure the
timelv supply of farm inputs -- fertilizer, improved seeds, pesticides --
to the peasant sector at reasonable cost. AISCO would progressively
develop a capacity to handle inputs on a wholesale basis and ultimately
withdraw from most retail activities. The retail activities would
simultaneously be assumed by the strengthened SC movement. The proposed
stores development program arose from a consultant study financed under MPP
II and IFAD Ln.168-ET¶. The plan calls for a new 25,000 ton fertilizer
store (to be financed under the EEC-supported PADEP project) to be
established at Assab port thus reducing wastage and facilitating more rapid
movement through the port. This would be supplemented by a 10,000 ton
central store being constructed at Modjo (Shewa - financed by IFAD). Of
the total estimated AISCO storage: requirements (120,000 tons), PADEP I
would, over three years, provide sowe 15,000 tons at selected sites.
3.22     AISCO's transportation requirements have been reviewed by a PPF
financed consultant study which, inter alia, recommended a strategy of
AISCO focus on internal distribution to zonal centers and ultimately ESCs,
leaving the Ethiopia Freight Transport Corporation to handle transport from
Assab to the central stores in Nazareth, Modjo and Kaliti.   The study
recommended that AISCO be equipped with a vehicle fleet of some 50X22 ton
truck-trailer units to assist with input transportation to the regional
distribution centers, and from the regional centers to MOAISC marketing
centers and stores throughout the country. The proposed fleet would be



- 29 -
sufficient for about 50 percevt of AISCO's transportation requirements, the
balance being provided by contracts with the national transport system
(EFTC), by AMC back-loading, and by private truckers.   Under PADEP I,
20X22 ton truck-trailer units, &nd one mobile garage vould be financed
during the first three project years. Vehicle maintenance would be done
both in the main MOA workshop and under contract to private sectur repair
facilities. In addition to the mobile workshop, AISCO would be provided
with a facility sufficient to complete minor repairs and preventive
maintenance. The study included an examination of alternative and
supplementary means of meeting the AISCO transport requirements and
considered the IDA support proposed for tnclusion in the forthcoming
transport project. The AISCO component would include substantial staff
training including management training for senior staff. The project would
also provide some office equipment and TA to strengthen financial control
procedures (12 months). The AISCO Implementation airangements including
those for input supply, strengthening management and improving the
corporation's financial structure are discussed in paras 4.19 - 4.21.
3.23     Agricultural Credit.  The peasant sector production credit
requirements would be handled by both CBE and AIDB. Under the project,
AIDB would be strengthened with the provision of vehicles for branch
offices. Staff development, including overseas training where necessary,
is adequately provided for under existing projects (Ln. 131-ET, Cr.
1782-ET). Adequate funds are also currently available under the same
projects for peasant sector development credit requirements. Production
credit needs, estimated at an average of around Br 180 million annually,
would be provided from existing resources of CBE and, for AIDB, from the
local currency equivalent of the foreign exchange provided from the IDA
PADEP I Credit for importing fertilizer. These IDA funds, estimated at Br
175 million over five years, would be on-lent by PDRE to AIDB for financing
fertilizer purchases by AISCO. As the fertilizer is bought by farmers and
AISCO repays its seasonal loan to AIDB, the repaid funds would be used by
AIDB to finance peasant production and development credit in support of
project objectives for ten years, at which time AIDB would complete loan
repayment to PDRE. The production credit operational arrangements are
discussed in paras 4.24 - 4.26.
Analysis of Pricing Policy
3.24     Price Studies and Policy Institute.  To provide regular and
soundly based advice on prices and price policies in all sectors of the
economy including agriculture, PDRE has recently established a Price
Studies and Policy Institute (PSPI). The Institute would absorb the Price
Studies and Policy Department of ONCCP. It would, among other things,
conduct periodic reviews of agricultural prices including studies which
would underpin the advice provided to policy makers on price policy and on
how prices are determined. Under PADEP, PSPI would monitor and evaluate
the implementation of the grain marketing and price reforms, using data
prepared by other key participants in addition to its own research work.
Evaluation would include the impact on trends in longer term agricultural
sector indicators (para 4.31). PADEP I would provide PSPI with vehicles,
analytical equipment, TA and support for both local and overseas staff
training.



- 30 -
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
3.25            To complete preparation and expedite project start-up, PDRE
requested assistance under a Project Preparation Facility. In addition to
the activities sad studies described above, the following are being
financedt (i) implementation with farmers of a pilot oaize production
project using hybrid seedsg (ii) conducting ba-eline studies for ultimate
e-aluation of the project impact (combined with FLDP baseline studies);
(iLI) practical extension training and implementation experience in four
PADEP "spearheads Woredas in the two Zones -- NW and Western; and (iv)
consultant studies to prepare or review: (a) the rural technology
promotion, (b) the feasibility of building a fertilizer bagging and
blending plant at Assab; (c) materials design and preparation for
cooperativo staff training; and (d) MOA's internal systems for procurement.
The PPF financed vehicles, equipment, staff training, inputs, travel and
specific operating costs and TA. A total PPF of US$1.3 million Was
approved (P-405) and has been included in the project costs. All of the
PPF funds have been expended or ate committed for disbursement against
ongoing contracts or activities.
C. Prolect Cost and Financing
Proiect Costs
3.26            A summary of cost estimates is given in Table 3.1; breakdowns by
ytar and by nature of ex?enditure are in Annex 1.
Table 3.1
MIlE  I*")                       uss  0001                         * Ietl
Local    Forgt%i   Total         Local   Foroign   Total        E.clawi      Costs
tS:S*.ns  ;-:S--SS: _:-_;;            rS:t:_  t:::_: z ;:-_-.2;   ;.U       :: :.:::
A. KN;AGEMNI OF SECTORAL SERVICES
1. PROJECT COoIOINATION. n A E                                  1.024.9   2. 0S65.    3,121.8      4S5. 1  1.013.0   1.508. 1           67         2
2. FluNCIAL CONTROt                                               100.0      216.0      316.0        48.3    104.3       152.7           S8        0
S. EXTEISION NATERIALS. PRINTING AND EDITORIAL SERVICE            572.4   t,007.0   t,579.4         276.5    486-S       763.0          64          1
4. AORICjLTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING IIEADOIARTERS              98.      1.876 216.               476       636    .0.46
. COOPEREATIVE DEVELOPNENT HQ                                   4.100.2   1.5 24.0   6,364.       , 960.8    606.8   2 586.6            23         3
6. RUR.t NONEN AFFAIRS DIVISION                                 1.3 20.3     368.8   1.679.         637 18 173. 3        81. 1          21          1
Sub-Total NANAGCENENT OF SECTORAL SERVICES                         8. 106.4   6.120.4  14.226.9   3.9t6. 1 2,9s6.7   6,872.9                43         7
8. TECHNOLOGICAL INPROVENENtS
!                 ~~~~~-------------------------- 
1. NATIONAL fIELD TRIALS                                        1.028. 4   1.496. 4   2.t24. 9     496.8    722.9   1.219.7             59         1
2. RUUL TECHNOLOGY                                              1. 395. 5   3.6. 8   4.952. 3       674. 1  1.718 3   2.392. 4          72          2
Sie-Total TEChNOlOGICAL INPROVENENIS                               2.423.9   5.053.2   7.477.2   1. 171.0  2.441.2   3.612. 1               68         4
C. DELIVERY Of SERVICES IN TNE
NORIHUESTERN ZONE
|.   tUlL OFFICE                                                5.017.9      474.0   5,491.9   2.424. 1    229.0   2.653. 1              9         3
2. EXTENSION SERVICE                                            7.758.7   3.039.7  10. 798.4   3.746.2  1.468.4   5.216.6               28         5
3. COOPERATIVE DEVEtOPNENT                                      1,576.5      242.7   1.819.2        761 6    117.3       878.8           13         1
4. INTEGIATED tATERSHED DEVELOPHENT                              . 318. 9   1, 766. 4   3. 08.2     637. 1    863.3  t1490.4            67
Sub-Total DEIIVERY OF SERVICES IN tHE
NORTINHESERU ZONE                                              15. 671.9   S. 522.?  21. 194.7   7,571.0  2.668.0  10. 239.0            26        tO
D. IltPROVED INPUT SUPPLY
1. SUPPLY Of INPUTS                                            26. 473.6 120.244.4 146.718.0  12.789.2 58.089. 1  70.878.3              82        71
2. AISCO                                                        6.072.2   8,523.0  14,595.2   2,933.4  4. 117.4   7, 050.8              68         1
3. AIDs                                                           177.8      218.2      396.0        86.9    106.4       191.3 6t                  0
4. FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR STUDY                                      54.0      466.0      540.0        26.1    234.8       260.9          90         0
Swb-lotali INPROVED INPUT SUPPLY                                  32,777.6 129. 471.6 162. 249.2  15,834.6 62.546. 78. 381.3                g0        79
E. IHE PRICE STUDIES AND POLICY INSTITUTE                            442.4      618 1       960.4      213.7    250.3       464.0           54         0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                59.422.1 146.686. 1 206. 108.3  28.706.3 70.862.9  99.569.2               71       loS
Physical ContinanciGs                                             5. 15.6  t4,257.6  19,412.2   2,490.2  6.687 7   9,377.9                73          9
Price Cont rnguc;s                                                s 781.0  14. 174.9  19. 96.9   2.792.7  6. 847. 8   9,640.5             71         to
lotal PRO.LCI COSIS                                                  70,357.7 17t.;18.7 245.476.4  33.989.3 84.98.4   ,8 B;7. 8              71       119
::: :tt:t:: :I..:                                                         I,. .:



- 31 -
The cost of the project is US$118.6 million for a period of five years.
This includes taxes of US$4.7 million and a foreign cost component of
US$84.6 million representing 712 of the total coats. Cost estimates are
baoed on June 1988 prices. Physical contingencies of 101 have been allowed
on vehicles, equipment, and buildings, and 151 for operating costs. Price
contingencies have been included at the following annual rates: 31 for 1988
and £989, 41 for 1990 to 1993 for foreign inflation (in accordance with
World Bank Forecasts); and 3.21 for 1988 and 1989, and 3.51 for 1990 to
1993 for domestic inflation.
3.27     The financing of project costs including texes would be shared in
the amounts and proportions shown in Table 3.2:
Table 3.2
Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
(USS million)
Item                                   IDA         Govt. & AISCO  Total
Buildings                               1.1         1.7             2.8
Vehicles                                4.4         2.3             6.7
Equipment                               3.4         1.7             5.1
External Training                       0.5         0.0             0.5
Local Training                          0.4         4.8             5.2
Technical Assistance                    1.3         0.1              1.4
Fertilizers                            69.3        15.2            84.5
Conservation Activities                 0.8         0.6              1.4
Salaries and allowances                  -          5.5             5.5
Operation and Maintenance               2.5         1.7             4.2
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)      1.3         0.0              1.3
85.0        33.6           118.6
The proposed IDA credit of US$85.0 million would finance about 751 of
project costs (net of taxes) and cover all the foreign exchange
requirements and about US$0.4 million of the local costs of training and of
the PPF. All fertilizer costs would be recovered from farmers but some
prefinancing of local costs would be borrowed by AISCO from the domestic
banking system. Government would finance mainly local personnel, operating
costs and taxes.



- 32 -
D. Procurement
Table 3.3
Procurement ArranRements a/
(US$ million)
---Procurement Method----
ICB      LCB       Others  Total
Civil works                                  2.8                 2.8
(1.1)              (1.1)
Vehicles bI                         6.5      0.2                 6.7
(4.3)   (0.1)               (4.4)
Equipment                           4.9      0.2                 5.1
(3.3)   (0.1)               (3.4)
Fertilizers                        84.5                         84.5
(69.3)                     (69.3)
Conservation Activities etc. c/                         1.4      1.4
(0.8)   (0.8)
Training                                                5.7      5.7
(0.9)   (0.9)
Technical Assistance                                    1.4      1.4
(1.3)   (1.3)
Operating Costs d/                                      4.2      4.2
(2.5)   (2.5)
Local Salaries and Allowances                           5.5      5.5
Project Preparation Facility(PPF)             0.3       1.0      1.3
(0.3)     (1.0)   (1.3)
Total Costs                        95.9       3.5      19.2   118.6
(76.9)    (1.6)     (6.5)  (85.0)
a/   The amounts to be financed by IDA are in parentheses.
b/   Includes an allowance of 20Z for spare parts to be procured with each
vehicle.
c/   Includes a fund for conservation development, preparation of a National
Agricultural Resources Conservation Project (para 3.18) and local working.
capital for the PES (para 3.07).
d/   Vehicle maintenance (fuel and labor), and office expenses.
3.28     Civil works contracts amounting to about US$2.8 million include the
construction of workshops and stores. The individual contracts are not
suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) because the work is small
and too widely scattered geographically to attract international interest.
These contracts would, therefore, be awarded following local competitive



- 33 -
bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to IDA. Foreign firms would be eligible
to bid. Vehicles, office and workshop equipment, spare parts, and tools would,
wherever possible, be grouped into contracts valued at US$400,000 or more, and
would be procured under ICB. Procurement of fertilizers would follow Bank
procedures for the procurement of commodities (January, 1988). Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would, for equipment and goods under ICB, receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or
of the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Smaller
contracts could be procured by LCB 'USS0.4 million) according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. Local procurement procedures for goods have been reviewed
and found to be generally satisfactory. Off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$50,000 each and urgently required for project execution may be purchased by
prudent shopping with at least three price quotations. Spare parts may be
purchased directly or by limited international bidding (LIB).   The total value
of items purchased in this way would not exceed US$3.5 million without prior
IDA agreement. Consultant services and technical assistance, totalling US$1.4
million for 5 staff years of long-term and 58 staff months of short-term
contracts, would be procured according to IDA guidelines for use of
consultants. To expedite recruitment and provide technical administrative
backup, internationally recruited technical assistance staff would, if
practical, be grouped into teams and procured through consulting firms
acceptable to PDRE and IDA. The remaining expenditures, including fellowships
and training, staff allowances and operating costs, are not subject to special
procurement procedures.
3.29     For all civil works contracts (buildings) and those for purchases of
vehicles, equipment and supplies exceeding US$400,000, proposals for
advertising draft tender documents, bid evaluation and award proposals would
require prior IDA review. An estimated 902 of total contract value would
require such review procedure. Other contracts are subject to selective award
review. One copy of all the contracts, whether subject to pre-award review or
not, would be sent to IDA prior to the submission of the first withdrawal
application. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procurement
procedures described would be followed.
E. Disbursements
3.30     The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over an estimated seven
year period which corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for the
agricultural sector In Ethiopia (Annex 3). Estimated disbursements for
this project have been accelerated to take into account the refinancing of
the PPF, disbursements into the Special Accounts and the proposed financing
arrangements for fertilizers (para 3.20). IDA's contribution to operating
costs would be on a declining percentage to allow Government to build up
gradually to its post-project funding responsibilities.



- 34 -
3.31     The disbursement categories, allocations and IDA's share of
eligible expenditures would be as follows:
Amount of Loan
Allocated        S of estimated cost
Category                     (USS million)    to be financed
1. Buildings
(i) MOA                   0.1             10OZ of foreign expenditures
(ii) AISCO                 1.0            45Z of local expenditur4s
2. Vehicles and Equipment
(i) MOA, AIDB and PSPI    3.7             100X of foreign expenditures
(il) AISCO                3.4             75Z of local expenditures
3. Fertilizers                62.3            1001 of foreign expenditures
4. Training
(i) MOA and PSPI          0.7             1001 of foreign expenditures
(iL) AISCO                0.1             201 of local expenditures
5. Technical Assistance
(i) MOA and PSPI          1.1             1002 of total expenditures
(ii) AISCO                0.1
6. Conservation Activities    0.8             1001 of foreign expenditures
501 local expenditures
7. Operating Costs             2.2            801 of expend. thru Dec.31, 1990
601 of expend. from Jan 1, 1991
to December 31, 1992
40Z of expend.from Jan. 1, 1993
onwards
8. Refinancing of PPF          1.3
Unallocated                 8.2
85.0
3.32.    Disbursements of all expenditures would be made against full
documentation except as outlined below. A condition of disbursement for
conservation activities would be prior IDA approval of proposals within the
framework of the annual action program (para 4.18). Reimbnrsement of eligible
expenditures in both local and foreign currency would be made solely on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOE) in respect of: (a) contracts for
goods and services valued less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) operating
costs and local training programs. All documentation related to such
expenditures would be retained in a central location by the implementing
agency concerned, and made available for IDA review upon request.



- 35 -
Special Account
3.33     To facilitate project implementation, provide foreign exchange in a
timely manner, and to expedite disbursement, the Borrower would open and
maintain two Special Accounts in US dollars with the National Bank of
Ethiopia; the first account would have an authorized allocation of US$2.0
million and would be operated by MOA, while the second account would have an
authorized allocation of US$1.0 million and would be operated by AISCO. Both
accounts would be operated on terms and conditions acceptable to the IDA, and
would be replenished on the basis of regular monthly applications from MOA or
AISCO documenting expenditures from the accounts. The Special Accounts would
bo used as much as possible :o meet all eligible expenditures, and the minimum
size for direct payments or issuance of Special Comitments would normally be
10Z of the authorized allocation.
3.34     No Special Account is proposed for the AIDB component of the project.
Expenditures under this component are expected to involve relatively few
contracts, and disbursements would thus be made through reimbursement, direct
payment or issuance of Special Commitments. The minimum application size for
this component would be US$20,000 equivalent; payments below that limit would
be pref4nanced by AIDB and aggregated claims for reimbursement would be
submitted periodically.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.35     MOA and AISCO, and AIDB would maintain separate records of project
expenditures. Each institution would have the project accounts audited by an
independent auditor satisfactory to IDA. The audit would include the
examination of SOEs submitted to IDA for reimbursement. The audited accounts
including the auditor's review of SOEs, would be sent to IDA within six
mouths after the end of the Ethiopian financial year. MOA annual accounts are
current. The auditor's qualifications of the accounts have been reduced, but
annual reports continue to be qualified due to the status of fixed assets
control and valuation.  This issue was the subject of a consultants study
under MPP II, the main reconmmendations of which would be implemented under
PADEP I.  The auditor would, in conformity with Bsnk guidelines, issue a long-
form report for FY88 accounts and for subsequent years. By June 1988, AISCO
had not yet completed Its annual accounts up to FY87. Agreement has been
reached on a schedule for completing the financial statements for the four
years FY85 through PY88 by June 1989. In the meantime, AISCO would maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures. Presentation of audited financial
statements by AIDB has, except for timeliness in some years, been satisfactory
under other projects (IFAD Ln.131-ET). Assurances that these accounting and
auditing procedures would be followed were obtained from the Government during
negotiations.



- 36 -
G. Cost Recovery and Budgetary Implications
3.36     Cost Recovery.  Of the total estimated project cost (net of taxes) of
Birr 235 million, Birr 175 million (or 732 of total project cost) would
finance fertilizer purchases, the cost of which would be fully recovered from
farmers. For the AISCO and AIDB components totalling Birr 17 million, PDRE
would on-lend Birr 10 million from the IDA credit and AISCO and AIDB would
finance the remaining local costs of their respective components. Only Birr
43 million (or 181 of total project cost) would be non-recoverable and used
mainly for strengthening MOA services to farmers.
3.37     Government Budiet.  In the FY88 budget, the allocation for MOA
recurrent and capital expenditures was Birr 425 million out -f the total
Government budget of Birr 5133.2 million. Of the Birr 425 million, Birr 93.4
million (222) was for the recurrent budget and Birr 331.6 million (78Z) for
the capital budget. The net domestic resources from Government, AISCO and
AIDB required to finance project costs are estimated at Birr 60.0 million, 251
of project costs (excluding duties and taxes). The additional net Government
contribution to PADEP I through the budget over five years would amount to
Birr 43 million. The overall effect of the incremental project operating
costs on the total Government recurrent budget in the final project year,
assuming constant 1988 prices, would be an increase of less than 1Z. The
effect on the MOA recurrent budget, however, would be an increase of 81.



CHAPTER IV
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Ortanization. Management and Coordination
4.01     Proiect Organisation and Coordination.  The project would be
managed and implemented by existing departments and agencies: MOA, AISCO,
AIDB, PSPI. The main implementing department within MOA would be the
Cooperative Promotion and Agricultural Development Main Department (CPADMD)
which administers *?xtension, cooperatives and adaptive research (Annex
4.1). A PADEP Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) has been established by
MOA to coordinate the implementation of all the MOA PADEP projects
including the IDA supported PADEP I and II projects. The PCC is chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture and comprises the four MOA Vice Ministers, the
General Managers of AISCO, AIDB, CBE, IAR, and ESC and the Head, MOA
Project Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PCMED). The
latter is also the PCC secretary and, under the project, would be the
Project Coordinator. The PCC would meet prior to the new fiscal year
(July) and additionally as required. PCC would review and approve semi-
annual progress reports of all participating agencies. It would ensure
coordination among implementing agencies and resolve any disputes arising
among them.  In each year of the project, PCC would cause each MOA
department -- AED, RTPD, PACPD, ADD, FD, PCMED, NW Zone -- and each Agency
-- AISCO, AIDB, PSPI, PES, MIS -- participating in project implementation
to prepare, by April 30, an action program..  The action program would
describe project-related staff training, procurement and other project
activities and projected physical and financial targets to be achieved
under the project. A copy of the combined action programs would be sent to
IDA for information. PCC would review and approve project-related
operational policies. It would monitor the timeliness and adequacy of
foreign exchange allocations for input procurement and the timeliness of
project-related actions and approvals required from government agencies not
directly involved in project implementation. Finally, PCC would raise
project related issues with higher levels of government. Assurances that
the PCC would be maintained with the above membership and broad terms of
reference were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.02     Imolementation Responsibilities.  Responsibilities for
implementing the main project activities would be carried out by respective
agencies as follows: (a) MOA Project Coordination and M&E Department --
project coordination and administration, project M&E and project related
procurement, project progress reports; .(b) MOA support services: Finance
Department (FD) -- accounting and financial administration; Programming and
Planning (PPD) -- farm systems survey and social and economic research;
Peasant Association and Cooperative Promotion (PACPD) -- cooperative
development and staff training; Information and Public Relations (IPRD) --
publications and editorial service; (c) MOA Agricultural Development



- 38 -
Department (ADD) -- the field trials program; (d) Rural Technology
Promotion (RTPD) -- small farm implements development; (e) MKA North
Western Zone -- project field activities, extension, M&E, cooperative
develqpment, Bur-Silala conservation and watershed management; (f) AISCO
-- input supply and distribution; (g) AIDB and CBE -- production credit;
and (h) PSPI -- monitoring the implementation of grain pricing and
marketing reforms and evaluating the impact on key indicators.
4.03     At the Zone, the existing arrangements for PADEP project
coordination and administration would be continued. The Zonal General
Manager would be the Zonal Project Manager. The Head, Agricultural
Extension Team would be the Zonal PADEP Coordinator under the direction of
the General Manager. The Zonal Project Coordinator would continue to be
supported by the small PADEP Coordination Secretariat estaolished to
implement the PPF activities and initiate project start-up.
B. Ministry of Agriculture Sector Services
4.04     Proiect Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation Department
QPCMED). The PCMED to be established at MOA headquarters would include
three divisions: (i) Project Coordination; (ii) Project Monitoring and
Evaluation; and (iii) Non-Government Organizations Coordination. The
Project Coordination Division would coordinate project implementation and
administration including initiating project procurement, IDA Credit
disbursement and reimbursement and donor-related administration. The
existing PPD Project Coordination Division would be absorbed into the PCMED
as would the PADEP Project Coordination Secretariat established to
administer the PADEP PPF and currently attached to the Office of the Vice-
Minister of CPADMD.
4.05     The PCMED would receive regular reports from the various
implementing agencies according to an agreed schedule. These reports
would, inter alia, review the status of project implementation and
achievement of annual physical and financial targets, and define issues
which arise and impede progress. Within the Project Coordination Division,
a desk officer would monitor the implementation of each main project or
group of projects. The desk officer would liaise with the respective
project coordinators and implementing departments and agencies to monitor
progress with implementation, to ensure that timely progress reports are
received in the agreed format and to report implementation issues and
bottlenecks. Within the M&E Division, a desk efficer would be appointed
for each main project or group of projects. This person would follow up on
Zonal M&E of project performance and impact and monitor the availability of
the necessary resources and support to allow implementation of adequate
Zonal M&E. Government proposals for the establishment of the PCMED,
including these broad terms of reference and with proposed staffing
pattern, were scrutinized during negotiations and found acceptable.
4.06     Financial Control and the MOA Finance Department.  The EDP system
strategy (para. 3.06) is being reviewed in an ongoing study financed under
the PPF. Upon completion of this study, MOA and IDA will establish an



- 39 -
*ction plan for implementing the recommendations. Under the project,
financial and administration staff vacancies would be filled as each Woreda
and Awraja is phased into the project (para 4.16). MOA FD, in cooperation
with PPAD as required, would focus on improving the stock control and fixed
assets valuation procedures, reviewing the functions of the Internal Audit
Department and designing programs to improve financial control and
reporting systems within MOA, and assisting Zonal staff to improve
efficiency and turnaround time of financial reports. MOA FD headquarters
staff would conduct a detailed review of financial procedures at the Zones,
Awrajas and Woredas. They would also make regular visits to each Zone to
conduct training for lower level financial and administrative staff. MOA
FD would, by July 7. 1989, prepare a three-year systems improvement action
plan. The action plan would include, inter alia, timetables for
implementation, staff training schedules, details of manuals to be
prepared, revised operating procedures and type and cost of equipment
required. This plan would be sent to IDA for information. Assurances that
these procedures would be implemented were obtained from the Government
during negotiations.
4.07     Extension Materials Production and Editorial Service. The
proposed Printing and Editorial Service (PES) (para. 3.07) also is being
reviewed by an ongoing consultant study financed under the PPF. Upon
completion of this study by January 31, 1989, MOA and IDA wiAl establish an
action plan for implementing and operating the PES. The PES would provide
services to the various MOA departments and agencies with the actual cost
of these services being provided for on the respective departmental/agency
annual budgets. Broadly, the PES would, inter alia, (a) provide all
services on a charge-out basis; the charge-out rate would cover all
operating costs including an allowance for depreciation or equipment
replacement and an operating profit; (b) be designed to provide for about
60 percent of the total MOA requirements with surplus work being contracted
outside on behalf of the respective departmentlagency; and (c) prepare an
annual report on its operations and financial performance according to a
set of key indicators agreed with IDA. PES would send its annual report to
IDA within two months of the close of the fiscal year (July 7), the first
such report being due on AuRust 31, 1990. Assurances that these
arrangements would be implemented were obtained from the Government during
negotiations.
4.08     kOA Headquarters Agricultural Extension. The role of the HQ AED
would be, inter alia, (a) to ensure that MOA Zonal management is fully
aware of PDRE agricultural development policies and directives in extension
related matters; (b) to provide guidance on development policies and
technical matters; (c) to ensure the availability of both staff and
financial resources; (d) to coordinate the provision of technical
assistance and specialized training; (e) to facilitate provision of
required equipment and support materials; and (f) to review the Zonal
Extension annual work program and budget. (The PADEP extension system
being implemented in Gojam-Gonder is outlined in paras 3.12 - 3.16). In
order to achieve a fully professional extension service throughout the
country, MOA would implement the agricultural extension activities using
three basic principles: (i) a direct line of technictl command from the



- 40 -
Zonal Extension Coordinator through the Awraja and Woreda Extension
Coordinators to the DAs; (ii) extension staff to be progressively relieved
of all non-extension activities; and (iii) all extension staff to
participate in regular training programs and structured visiting of
farmers. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government
during negotiations.
4.09     MOA Cooperative Accountina and Auditina Staff.  Increased support
to SCs for bookkeeping and accounting would be partly achieved by providing
special training for cooperative executive committee members and
accouitants, and partly by streng& ning MOA Awraja cooperative staff. In
addition to the special task force activities described in para 3.17, MOA
woulds (i) appoint one MOA cooperative accountant in each Project Woreda,
and (ii) in each Project Awraja, assign a cooperative accounts supervisor
to train and supervise Woreda cooperative accountants, and a cooperative
auditor to ensure that all cooperative accounts are audited every year.
These appointments would be made progressively as trained staff become
available and would be completed by June 30. 1990. Cooperative accountants
and auditors would be assigned to work with a specific number of SCs which
would be visited on a regular time-structured basis. Auditors would visit
each SC twice yearly and accountants would make visits at not less than
three monthly intervals. Assurances that the staff would be assigned and
the visiting arrangements implemented were obtained during negotiations.
4.10     Training and Manpower Development.  Each MOA implementing
department and AISCO would, by April 30 in each vear of the prolect,
prepare a staff training program and a schedule for conducting the
training, including the estimated cost thereof, for the next year. The
training program would include overseas fellowships and the training to be
conducted by long-term TA staff. All overseas training would be based on
an individual skill gap analysis of the candidates and be directly related
to project activities. IDA agreement would be required for all courses and
staff selected for overseas training including study tours financed under
the project (see aloo para 4.01). Assurances that the training program
outlined would be prepared and the fellowship selection criteria
implemented were obtained during negotiations.
4.11     Technical Assistance.  An objective of PADEP is to improve the
management and the impact of long term TA staff. For all local and
internationally recruited TA staff, MOA, PSPI and AISCO would:
(i) ensure that the terms of reference (TORs) and the qualifications
of TA staff are satisfactory to IDA;
(ii) by December 31. 1989, establish a Technical Assistance
Coordination Committee (TACC) chaired by the Head of PMECD and
comprised of senior representatives of each main department and,
where applicable, AISCO; this committee would, among other things,
consider the status of TA recruitment and performance as evaluated
against an agreed set of criteria;



- 41 -
(iii)  the TOR for 811 long-term TA staff (6 months or more) would
provide for conducting not less than six weeks of structured
training in each year; the training program would be prepared in
consultation with the imediate supervisor and be reviewed by the
TACC; and
(iv) for all long-term TA staff, adequately qualified counterparts
would be appointed to work continuously with the TA staff
throughout their assignment; based on a skill gap analysis of the
counterpart, a training program would be prepared and implemented
which would be designed to allow the local staff to assume the
duties and responsibilities of the TA staff within a specified
period; the training schedule would be prepared by the TA staff in
consultation with the zmnediate supervisor and might include
overseas training.
Assurances that these TA arrangements would be implemented were obtained
from the Government during negotiations.
4.12     Procurement Arrantements. Under the project, MOA would implement
the following arrangements for foreign procurement. Each implementing
department would prepare, by April 30. a procurement schedule for the next
year which would specify the number, type and, where applicable, the volume
and specifications of the goods to be procured. These schedules would be
combined by the PCMED project coordination division who would prepare the
required bid documents, obtain clearances from outside agencies and
complete the procurement process up to the stage where the goods arrive at
the port of Assab. PPAD would then complete the internal processes
required to clear the goods into the MOA stores. All vehicles procured
under the project by participating agencies including MOA, AIDB, PSPI and
AISCO would be used exclusively by those agencies and departments for the
prescribed project use and would be identified as 'PADEP I' vehicles (see
also para 4 01). Assurances that these procurement arrangements would be
implemented were obtained during negotiations.
C. Technolosy Development and Adaptive Research
4.13     In order to strengthen adaptive research program and its adoption
by peasants, the following arrangements would be made:
(a) The National Research Extension Liaison Committee would (i) review,
not later than January 31, 1989, the available scientific and trial
evidence and recommend the most cost-efficient fertilizer to be
imported under the Project; and (il) review with the National Crop
Improvement Committee the annual trial activities of the Institute
of Agricultural Research, the National Field Trials Program and the
National Fertilizer and Inputs Unit prior to the implementation of
such trial activities;
(b) The Zonal Research Extension Liaison Committee would (i) carry out,
not later than March 1989, a study to determine more precisely the
technology, including fertilizer application rates, improved seed
varieties and appropriate agronomical practices, which can be used



- 42 -
by the extension service in the risn Agro Ecological Zones for the
main crops in high potential Woredas of the Northweatern Zone; and
(ii) annually review the technology recommendations arising from the
trial activities prior to having such recommendations furnished to
the extension services; and
(c) MOA and IAR would complete a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for
jointly conducting adaptive research programs. The MOU would, inter
alia, define the role and responsibilities including the division of
the work and costs of each party for implementing adaptive research
and farm systems survey programs, and be aimed at avoiding
duplication and making the best use of staff and financial
resources.
Assurances that the arrangements in (a) and (b) above would be implemented
were obtained from the Government during negotiations. The draft MOU was
brought to nogotiations and was found acceptable.
D.Implementation of North West Zone PADEP Program
4.14     Agricultural Extension. For implementing the extension activities,
MOA would by January 31. 1989, make the following operational arrangements
for the extension service in the NW Zone and, where applicable, for the HQ
AEDs
(a) appoint one fully qualified extension training subject matter
specialist (SMS) to the Extension Department at HQ and one to the
NW Zone and, by December 31. 1990, assign similar SMS at each of
the Awrajss participating in the project in the NW Zone. MOA
would implement a suitable training course to fully equip these
SNS for their tasks and would inform IDA of the arrangements for
such training including the proposed curriculum;
(b) in addition to the extension training of SMS, MOA would assign
three key SMS (plant production, plant protection, livestock
production or natural resource conservation) as regular members of
the Extension Department at HQ and a similar number at the NW
Zonal Office. MO& would prepare and implement an appropriate
training course for these newly appointed SMS and would inform IDA
of the arrangements including the training curriculum; and
(c) raise the rank of the NW Zonal Agricultural Extension Department
Team Leader to Zonal Extension Department Head.
4.15     Awraja SMS would participate in the MOA National Field Trial
Program, and supervise the Woreda trials technician and ensure the quick
flow of trial data to HQ. Each Awraja SMS team would be provided with
transport and made responsible for a specific but different group of
Woredas. Other technical staff currently stationed in Awrajas, such as
home economics and livestock marketing specialists, would continue to be
responsible for normal activities in their particular field. The above
arrangements were agreed during negotiations.



- 43 -
4.16     Proiect Woredas.  Over five years, about 40 high-potential Woredas
In Gojam and Gondar would be progressively phased into the PADEP project
activities as the following criteria are met: (a) the Woreda Is defined as
high potential; (b) all-weather road access is available to the Woreda
capital; (c) the Awraja and Woreda staff have been trained in the new
extension system and Awraja SMS refresher training programs have been
implemented; (d) AISCO has established a reliable input supply system
(fertilizer, pesticides, improved seeds) in the Woreda; (e) AIDB and CBE
are able to provide production credit on a timely basis to the Voreda SCs;
(f) the economically viable technology for AEZs within the concerned
Woredas Is defined; and (g) the vacancies in MOA Awraja and, where
applicable, in Woreda offices of planning, M&E, administration and finance
are filled.
4.17     The project activities would coumence in 27 Woredas in the first
year and the number would be progressively Increased to include about 40 as
the above criteria are fulfilled. The number of Woredas to be included
would be reviewed by MOA and IDA during IDA supervision missions; the first
such review would be held before Mav 31. 1989, and annually thereafter.
The main elements to be focussed upon during these reviews would be
performance during the previous year includings  (a) the number of
Woredas/Awrajas serviced and staffing patterns by Zone; (b) staff training
weeks implemented by type of training and staff; tc) fertilizer sold by
Woreda; (d) number of DAs/SMS deployed by Woreda, Awraja and Zone; (e)
number of farmers adopting improved technology by Woreda; and (f) HOA
operating cash flow analysis by Awraja, Woreda and DA. Assurances that the
above arrangements would be Implemented were obtained from the Government
during negotiations.
4.18     Bure-Silala Soil Conservation and Watershed Manaxement.  The basic
planning unit would be the SC and within this, the PA. A service
cooperative consultative plan (SCCP) would be prepared for each SC in the
watershed. SCCP planning has been developed by MOA PPD within the
framework of a number of donor-financed projects. The plan would include
au outline of the physical investments required to promote development and
the land utilization plan for the area covered by the SC. Crop systems and
the types of conservation based development and farming practices which
would be implemented would be included. These plans would be prepared by
an Awraja-based SMS team in full consultation with the community. Once
agreed upon, the resources for implementing the phased plan would be
mobilized including, where required, credit financing through AIDB.
Community work for construction of physical works such as gully control
structures, water ponds and soil bunds and other "public goods" would be
paid for by the project on an equipment or inputs-for-work basis. The
project also would promote alley cropping with multi-purpose leguminous
shrubs, planting of bunds and stock exclusion areas with herbaceous and
multi-purpose shrub legumes and with improved grasses, afforestation in
appropriate areas and improved farming practices. Seeds and seedlings
would be raised by the comnuity and, to a limited extent, in MOA nurseries
established under the project. Farmers would be paid cash for the seeds
and seedlings on the same basis as practiced under the Fourth Livestock
Development Project. Once successfully launched in this sub-watershed, the
program would be progressively extended to cover all of the 10,000 ha Bure
watershed by the end of project year five. The proposed spearhead activity
is being reviewed by consultants financed under the PPF and conducted under



- 44 -
terms of reference agreed with IDA. Upon completion of the study by March
31, 1989, MOA and IDA would exchange views on the findings and
recommendations arising therefrom and agree on an annual action program for
implementing the component. Moreover, prior t' expansion of activities
beyond the Bure - Silala watershed, MOA and IDA would exchange views and
agr-e upon an annual action program including financing from the funds
provided under the credit for this expansion. Inclusion in the annual work
program and prior IDA approval would be a condition of disbursemeikt for all
conservation activities (pare 3.32). Also under the project, MOA would, by
June 30. 1989, recruit consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA to help prepare the proposed National Agricultural Resources
Conservation project. Assurances that these arrangements would be
implemented were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
E. Farm Input Supply and Distribution, and Asricultural Credit
4.19     AISCO Operation and Manazement Efficiency.  AISCO's operating
strategy under the project would include limiting product and operational
expansion until the existing operations and management efficiency,
Including financial and stock controls, have been substantially improved.
To effectively improve its operational and management efficiency, AISCO
would by June 30, 1989: (a) prepare a revised stock management and control
operational program to improve control over stocks currently stored in some
750 MOA operated stores; (b) develop a comprehensive set of operational,
management and staff development policies to improve staff efficiency; (c)
prepare a comprehensive management information system and an operational
plan including the cost thereof for its Implementation; such system would
take account of and, to the extent possi.le, would be integrated with the
MOA FD MIS (para 3.06); (d) complete the annual financial statements in
accordance with the agreed schedule (para 3.35) and, following their
completion, conduct a review of the financial structure and requirements of
the Corporation; and, (e) prepare an operational plan to improve financial
control and internal audit procedures. Also, in each year of the project,
AISCO would prepare the action program referred to in para 4.01.
Assurances that the above arrangements would be implemented were obta4.ned
from AISCO and the Government during negotiations.
4.20     Annual Review of AISCO Performance.  AISCO'sj annual performance
would be reviewed jointly by AISCO and IDA.  The reviews would focus upon,
inter alia, (a) actual performance of implementing the project related
action plan, (b) the timing, accuracy and flow of stock control data from
the field to AISCO HQ; (c) the performance and the operational cost of
transport operations and management; (d) the timing and cost of the farm
input distribution including an analysis of timing delays, if any; (e) the
pricing of farm inputs including the proportion of AISCO overhead and
operations cost in the price build-up; (f) AISCO's financial performance
and staffing patterns; and (g) projections of future annual input demand by
type of input. In preparation for each review, AISCO would prepare an
annual review report which, among other things, would cover the items
described above. The first such review would be held by December 31, 1989.



- 45 -
Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Governuent during
negotitions.
4.21     On-Landint of Funds.  FuPds provided under the IDA Credit for
AISCO development (estimated at Birr 20.6 million) would be on-lent by PDRE
to AISCO for 10 years with three years of grace. Interest would be four
percent annually unless otherwise agreed between PDRE and the Association.
The appropriateness of the interest rate would be reviewed by PDRE and IDA
during periodic reviews of project implementation (para 4.24). The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by PDRE. Completion of a subsidiary loan
atreement, satisfactory to IDA, between MOF and AISCO reflecting the above
term would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.22     Annual Fertilizer Financing Plan.  By May 15 of each year of the
project, AISCO would prepare a peasant sector fertilizer procurement
schedule detailing (a) the amount and type of fertilizer to be procured,
(b) thj estimated C&F Assab and CIF Addis Ababa costs, (c) the estimated
total foreign exchange requirements and the time when it would be required,
and (d) the planned sources of the foreign exchange. This plan would be
reviewed by PDRE and, upon approval, sent to IDA aloug with the fertilizer
procurement documents for the first purchases in each year. IDA's
aareement to finance fertilizer under the project would be conditional upon
adequate funds being available to PDRE from either its own or other donor
sources, to meet the non incremental fertilizer requirements and an
increasing proportion of the incremental according to the agreed timetable.
An assurance to this effect was obtained from AISCO and the Government
during negotiations.
4.23     Fertilizer Sub-sector Study. The government would conduct a study
of the fertilizer sub-sector under the project. The study would examine,
inter alia: (a) the feasibility of introducing differential fertilizer
pricing according to the time of the year in order to: provide SCs with an
incentive to store fertilizer and thereby reduce the demand on AISCO
storage facilities; spread out the peak demand period, thereby facilitating
improved transportation, dispersing the procurement periods and easing the
peak demand on foreign exchange; and provide farmers with more timely
access to fertilizer; (b) the desirability and feasibility of establishing
a reserve against fluctuations in the cost of services and a fund for input
price stabilization; (c) a strategy for fertilizer storage development and
transportation and the role of various actors in this strategy, including
AISCO; (d) methods of streamlining the procurement process to reduce the
time delays and pursue a least-cost fertilizer procurement strategy; Ce)
the types and form of fertilizers which should be imported; (f) the
possibility for developing alternative channels for the supply and
distribution of fertilizer; and (g) the research strategy which should be
pursued to develop technologies and practices for the most economically
efficient use of fertilizer including opportunities for substituting
biological for chemical nitrogen. PDRE and IDA would exchange views on the
terms of reference which would be finalized by June 30. 1989. Upon
completion of the study by June 30. 1990, PDRE and IDA would by August 31,
1990 exchange views on the main findings and recommendations of the study
and promptly thereafter establish an action plan for implementation as it
would relate to the PADEP I project. An assurance to this effect was
obtained from the Government during negotiations.



- 46 -
4.24     Atricultural Credit.  Peasant sector development credit would be
provided by AIDB from existing resources, and production credit by both
AIDB and CBE. Funds required by CBE for providing production credit would
come from its own rescurces; those required by AIDB would be from both its
own resources and from the local currency received from the repayment of
tVe AISCO fertilizer purchase loan. Funds provided under the proposed IDA
Credit for fertilizer purchases (Birr 143.5 million) would be on-lent by
PDRE to AIDB. These funds would be used first, for on-lending to AISCO to
finance the foreign exchange costs of the annual fertilizer purchases and
second, as they are repaid by AISCO (within one year), AIDB would use them
to provide production and development credit to the peasant sector (on a
revolving basis) until after fifteen years when AIDB would complete loan
repayment to PDRE. The on-lending terms from PDRE to AIDB would be two
percent interest per annum and repayments of principal over fifteen years
including three years grace. AIDB on-lending to AISCO would be for one
year at six percent annually. The on-lending terms and conditions
applicable to IDA funds on-leant by PDRE and for funds on-lent by the
financial intermediaries under the project would be in accordance with the
understanding L.tween PDRE and IDA recorded in the exchange of letters of
April 21, 1988 and covering all IDA projects in Ethiopia. The financial
intermediaries would onlend at 5 percent per annum to the service
cooperatives who would in turn onlend to farmers at 7 percent per annum.
These onlending rates are positive in real terms since annual inflation has
averaged 2.3 percent over the last three years and is projected to average
3.3 percent per annum over the next three years. These terms and
conditions would be reviewed by IDA and PDRE by June 30, 1989 and the
agreements recorded in an exchange of letters. The basis of the existing
on-lending retes, and any revision thereof, is that they are positive in
real terms aw&d provide an adequate spread to the financial intermediaries.
The foreign ixchange risk would be borne by PDRE. Completion of a
subsidiary l>an afreement satisfactory to IDA and including these on-
lending arrangements between PDRE and AIDB would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.25     Service Cooperative Production Credit Arrangements.  Under the
project, SCs would play an increasing role in providing credit to PAs and
through them to individual farmers. As the legal entity, SCs would be
responsible for repaying bank loans. Short-term credit administration by
SCs would be assisted by the recently completed MOA manual containing a
standardized cooperative accounting system and standard procedures for
credit administration. Extensive training of MOA and SC staff on the
manual has started and will be expanded under the project. Farmers would
be entitled to purchase fertilizer for cash from AISCO through SCs or
obtain credit through AIDB. A loan agreement would be signed between the
SC and CBE/AIDB branch. Several factors should be considered in assessing
SC credit eligibility and credit ceilings. First, the fertilizer demand
estimate should be certified by HOA. Second, the SC must be formally or
provisionally registered. Third, SC accounts and repayment records should
be satisfactory, including loan obligations under any development loans.
Fourth, the bookkeeping and management standards of the SC must be
acceptable. Finally, the SC should have a satisfactory total debt
servicing capacity.



- 47 -
4.26     AIDB and CBE Oieratina Arrangements.  For their peasant sector
lending activities, AIDB and CBE woulds (a) participate with MOA in
training and upgrading cooperative bookkeepers, and in providing financial
advice to cooperatives; the training activities of each bank would roughly
parallel the geographical areas in which each would provide production
credit which would be defined by Awraja based Rural Credit Planning and
Implementation Committees to be formed under the revised NBE Credit Policy
Guidelinesl (b) supervise all loans at least semi-annually, whether for
production or development credit, and prepare a status supervision report
after ea"h visit; (c) exchange information on the outcome of appraisals and
exchange credit information on client cooperatives, thus safeguarding their
own interests and those of the client through avoiding undue burdening of
service cooperatives with credit liabilities; (d) where CBE handles
collection on behalf of AIDB, AIDB would pay CBE a fee to cover its
administration expenses and CBE would provide information on the status of
AIDB accounts within one week of the account closing at the end of each
month; and (e) where a cooperative has borrowed from both institutions,
priority for repayments would, if they are inadequate to meet the total
debt servicing requirements, be given to servicing the first loan. Also,
where any d&bt rescheduling may become necessary and the SC has borrowed
from both banks, the banks would jointly agree upon the rescheduling
arrangements.
4.27     Credit Policy Guidelines.  In consultation with the financial
intermediaries, NBE has revised the Credit Policy Guidelines of June 1986.
Under the revised guidelines which becwae effective on August 15, 1988, the
responsibilities for rural credit will be as follows. CBE will handle
marketing loans exclusively including those for coffee. It will also
provide some medium term loans (oxen, small projects involving minimum
appraisal and analysis), and production credit in designated areas. AIDB
will exclusively handle long term development loans. It will also provide
medium term loans, and production credit in designated areas. Most of the
operating arrangements discussed in para 4.26 are incorporated in the
revised guidelines. At each Awraja, a Rural Credit Planning and
Implementation Comittee comprised of representatives of concerned
institutions including the banks and MOA, is to be established. The
committee will, inter alia, (a) review the annual Awraja rural credit plans
of AIDB and CBE including an assessment of the expected annual credit
demand; (b) promote the use of credit for productive investment among the
rural community; (c) monitor the annual plan implementation; (d) monitor
loan recovery; (e) consider the need for debt rescheduling in the event of
a local natural disaster affecting farmers' ability to adequately service
debts; (f) monitor the exchange of credit information between the banks;
(g) as necessary, define the geographical areas in which AIDB and CBE would
provide production credit to cooperatives; and (h) consider all relevant
rural credit issues and refer those which cannot be resolved locally to the
General Managers Coordinating Committee. This latter committee will
comprise the General Managers of all the financial intermediaries involved
in providing rural credit. The revised guidelines also call for
establishing a Rural Credit Coordinating Committee chaired by the NBE
Governor. This committee will include General Manager and Vice-Minister
level representation from concerned institutions including MOA. It would



- 48 -
be responsible for overseeing the development of rural credit policy and
implementation in Ethiopia. The revised guidelines should improve the
efficiency of rural credit in the country.
F.  Grain Marketing and Pricina and Price Policy Analysis
4.28     Agricultural Prices.  In order to take into account external price
changes and internal developments PDRE would annually review producer
prices for all inputs sold by AISCO and for all quota grains purchased by
AMC. The possibilities for improving the pricing arrangements for the key
input (fertilizer) are discussed in para 4.23. For AMC's purchades of
grain which account for 20Z of the estimated marketable surplus (para
1.21), PDRE would expand its analytical framework for determining relative
prices. The prices for AMC's purchases are currently based on a costs plus
151 return approach and an average incremental cash return of 2.1 for the
existing improved packages. As the capacity of PSPI develops, the
analytical framework would be expanded to include (a) border prices, (b)
trends in demand and production, (c) the development of improved
technology, (d) comparative advantages in the efficiency of resource use
across agro-ecological zones and for the country as a whole, and (e) the
PDRE budgetary impact of grain prices. PDRE would inform IDA by December
31, of each year, of (a) the official producer prices to be applied for the
following belg and meher harvests for all the main grains to be purchased
by AMC under the quota system and (b) the prices to be charged by AISCO for
all farm inputs. Assurances that the above arrangements would be followed
were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.29     Grain Marketing and Grain Quotas.  PDRE would maintain, as a
minimum, its existing arrangements for establishing the quotas for AMC
purchases from the peasant sector and for licensed trader activities.
Under existing arrangements, the annual 'quota' of AMC purchases from
farmers is based on three major principles: (i) an assessment of the
overall marketable surplue; (ii) AMC's capacity to efficiently manage,
transport, store and market the purchased grain; and (ii) the regular
requirements of low income urban consumers served by the kebeles together
with the requirements to maintain a strategic stock of foodgrains which
would be used to selectively intervene in the market when large price
fluctuations are caused by temporary and abnormal imbalances in supply.
The determination of individual quotas within the peasant associations and
cooperatives would be based on the per hectare productive capacity of the
land, and the family consumption requirements. Farmers would sell any
grain in excess of their quota on the open market in any region of the
country without restrictions.  Licensed grain traders, after selling 501 of
their annual purchases to AMC, would sell grain in the open markets
throughout the country without restrictions. Finally, grain traders would
be licensed in accordance with the criteria approved by the Government in
January 1988. Assurances that the above arrangements would be followed
were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.30     In the event that the quantity of foodgrains required by AMC
exceeds the quantity of foodgrains available for procurement, the



- 49 -
government would, by April 30 in each year, discuss with the Association
ways and means of meeting the deficit through the import of foodgrains
financed by external sources. Also, PDRE would inform IDA by September 30
in each year of: (a) its grain trading activities of the previous year; and
grain trading arrangements for the following year.  Assurances to this
effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.31     Monitoring of Grain Marketing and Price Reform Implementation and
Key Agricultural Sector Indicators.  This activity would be conducted at
two levels: (i) the FAO supported Food Information System (FIS) in CSA
would supply most of the necessary data which it receives from its own
sources and from cooperating institutions, and (ii) the PSPI would appraise
these data, prepare semi-annual reports and recommend appropriate
government action. Until the PSPI becomes fully operational, the data
evaluation work would be done by the Price Policy and Research Department
of ONCCP which would be ultimately absorbed into PSPI. To facilitate the
data and information flow, ONCCP has formed a technical committee composed
of representatives of cooperating institutions including the Ministry of
Domestic Trade, Central Statistics Authority, Ministry of Foreign Trade,
MOA, RRC, AISCO, IAR and ESC. The technical committee would review the
anslysis and reports prepared by PSPI before they are forwarded to higher
authorities. PDRE would inform IDA, by January 1. 1989 of the final
arrangements for conducting the sector M&E according to an agreed set of
indicators (Annex 3) discussed during appraisal. PDRE would by June 30 of
each year, furnish to IDA reports on the movements in the set of indicators
whose data is normally available only once a year. For grain flows, stocks
and prices, PDRE would send reports on their movements by June 30, 1989 and
semi-annually thereafter. Assurances that the above arrangements would be
implemented were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
4.32     Management of Urban Grain SuPply and Food Security.
As part of developing a food security strategy, PDRE is currently
conducting an indepth study including ways of improving urban grain supply
management. By January 31. 1989 PDRE would inform IDA of the main findings
and recommendations of the study. An assurance to this effect was obtained
from the Government during negotiations.
G. Proiect Reporting. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.33     Proiect Reporting.  MOA, AIDB, PSPI and AISCO would prcpare semi-
annual progresu reports on the physical and financial progress of the
project in a format agreed with IDA. The reports would reach IDA within
two months of the end of the reporting period with the first period endirg
on December 31. 1989. Within four months of the close of the project, MOA,
AIDB and PSPI would prepare Project Completion Reports (PCR) which would,
in addition to the physical and financial aspects of the project, deal with
the trends and achievements in accordance with an agreed set of key
indicators. MOA, PCHED would then, within ,ix months of the close of the
project prepare a final report for the PCC for sending to IDA. Monitoring
the progress of the physical project implementation and project
expenditures for each category would flow from the semi-annual reports.
Assurances that these reporting procedures would be implemented were
obtained from the Government during negotiations.



- 50 -
4.34     Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation.  Project M&E would be managed
at two levels: (i) MOA headquarters and (it) the NW Zone. The MOA HQ
PCMED Monitoring and Evaluation Division would: (i) provide TA, training
and initial logisticallstaff support to the Zonal M&E activities; (it)
ensure that the activities followed in individual projects are In
accordance with an agreed design suited both to the project and to local
circumstances; (ii.) ensure that summary M&E findings are collated and
circulated to senior MOA authorities and to concerned donors. The
summaries would report and recommend remedies for any significant deviation
from the planned delivery on inputs and key services to project
beneficiaries; (iii) where Zonal M&E activities are slow to become fully
operational, take direct action to ensure project M&E is adequately
performed; and (iv) plan and conduct any special reviews of project
implementation and its Impact as required and prepare the projeot PCR. The
PPD HQ Socio-Economic Research Division would continue to commission
various profile studies and farm systems surveys, supply data required by
the CSA Food Information System, develop farm budgets and labor models and,
to the extent possible, coordinate and document all similar field
investigations within MOA. It would continue to build up the peasant
sector data base.
4.35     Each Zone would develop and sustain the capacity to design and
implement its own project M&E system under the guidanee of HQ PCMED. At
the Zone, the existing M&E and Social and Economic Research Divisions of
the Zonal Planning and Programming Service (at the Zone PPD is called a
Service rather than a Department) would be reformed into two divisions,
namely a Project Monitoring Division and an Evaluation and Research
Division. These structural changes would also be reflected at the Awrajas.
The duties of these two divisions would be (i) Project Monitoring Division:
(a) to prepare annual work plans giving physical and financial targets; (b)
to prepare progress reports giving achievements in relation to targets; (c)
to instruct MOA Zonal department staff in the completion of these progress
reports; (d) to monitor the delivery of project services and inputs to the
target population; and (e) to collate the information and present regular
reports to Zonal management; and (iI) Evaluation ard Research Division: (a)
to assess the impact of project activities; (b) designing and implementing
a series of farm, household and service cooperative sample surveys and case
studies; (c) conducting baseline surveys and ad hoc surveys to examine
specific project effects; and (d) collating information from other
departments and external sources and acting as the Zonal arm of the Socio-
economic Research Division of PPD at headquarters.   Credit and input
delivery to SCa would be monitored by the agencies concerned -- AISCO,
AIDB, CBE. Each technical department would monitor the project activities
for which it is responsible using formats jointly designed by the
departments and the M&E divisions. The above arrangements were agreed
during negotiations.



- 51 -
H. Implementation Review
4.36     PDRE and IDA would jointly review the status of Implementation
semi-annually during the first two project yeors, and annually thereafter.
The first such review would be hold by June 1989 and the second by December
1989. In preparation for these reviews, each participating department and
agency would prepare a brief statement which would, inter alia, give the
status of progress in accordance with an agreed set of project indicators.
Each statement would also briefly describe any constraints to successful
project implemeatation which may have emerged including recommendations of
how these may be removed. The PADEP Coordinator in PCMED would recoive
these statements and prepare a suaiary report and recommendations for the
PCC. This report would be sent to IDA not later than one month before the
date of the review meeting. Assurances that these review would be
conducted as described were obtained from the Government during
negotiations.



CHAPTER V
BENEFITS. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01     Prolect Benefits and Beneficiaries.  The project would help
generate substantial increases in grain production (paras 5.05 - 5.07) and
in farmer incomes (paras 5.08-5.09) in the existing and potential grain
surplus areas through the supply of fertilizers, support for marketing
reforms and improvements in supporting services. The strengthening of
MOA's and AISCO's services would expand their coverage and increase their
efficiency in terms of agricultural output generated per unit of cost. The
extensive training aspects of tne project would add to the resources of
trained manpower directly serving the peasant sector as well as in
incentive policy analysis. The institutional strengthening of national
services would potentially benefit all farming families in the country
currently estimated at nearly 6.0 million. In the imediate future,
families in the existing and potential surplus producing woredas would
benefit more than those in the deficit areas from the strengthening of
MOA'S crop production (extension and adaptive field trials, and cooperative
development services) as well as of the input supply (AISCO) and banking
services. The focus of these services would be gradually expanded to
include the deficit areas over the medium term depending on the pace of
development in the higher potential areas. In the short term, PDRE'S
emphasis in the deficit low-potential areas is on improving productivity
through soil and water conservation in an integrated watershed development
framework for which the pilot Bure Watershed under the project would serve
as an important prototype and testing ground.
5.02     In addition to wider benefits at the national level, the project
would generate more specific benefits in the North-Western Zone through the
strengthening of the key services at the field level and intensive training
of cooperative members and farmers. It is expected that over five years,
about 2,300 cooperative members would be trained in management and book-
keeping. An increased number of service cooperatives (SCs) would be
registered and be financially strong enough to diversify their activities
and services to members. The strengthened SCs are also expected to play a
greater role in the retailing of inputs and in providing credit services
for their members. Over five years, about 40 high-potential woredas (62Z
of total in the Zone) would be provided with effective extension coverage.
The number of farmers using improved practices would increase from about
260,000 (FY88) to about 650,000 (54Z of total in the zone) by the end of
year 5 of the project. The intensified adaptive field trials program is
expected to develop better location specific recommendations and with
intensified extension and fertilizer use, farmers' crop yields are expected
to increase by about 61 per annum for the major crops - teff, wheat, maize
and barley. Fertilizer consumption has been growing by nearly 301 annually
over the last three years in the zone and is expected to average at least
201 annually over the next five years.



- 53 -
5.03     Impact on Women.  The project would have a widespread beneficial
impact on women. In the rural community, women will benefit from the
increases in farm incomes that will be generated under the project. In
Ethiopia, female beads of farm household have equal rights as their male
counterparts. They are registered members of the PAs and SCs and have
equal rights to credit and other services and, therefore will benefit
equally from the facilities provided under the project. Some of the
activities of the service cooperatives such as mechanized flour milling are
of direct benefit to women. The increased use of fertilizers and improved
farming practices promoted under the project would not increase the burden
on the women's share of household labor. The project includes specific
attention to rural women's affairs tbrough the strengthening of the MOA
Rural Women's Affairs Department which provides training and extension to
women in home economics, cooperative involvement, nutrition, kitchen
gardening, and in other areas related to women in development.
5.04     In the urban and food deficit areas women, as consumers, will
benefit fromithe improvements in food security through the more reliable
supplies and more stable prices that would prevail as a result of the
project and the pricing and marketing reforms it supports. Within MOA,
there is a small but increasing number of female technical staff who will
benefit from the extensive training and institutional support that would be
provided under the project.
5.05     Production Impact.  The project would have an immediate as well as
a longer term impact on agricultural production. The immediate impact,
through the financing of fertilizers would be on cereals since in the
peasant sector fertilizers are applied almost exclusively on cereals. The
financing arrangements for fertilizers (para 3.20) would help maintain
growth in fertilizer use at about 20S per annum. On the basis of an
average response of 5 kgs of cereal to 1 kg of fertilizer, the expected
increase in national fertilizer use from 125,000 tons in FY88 to 280,000
tons in year 5 of the project would generate additional cereal production
of 775, 000 tons.  A discussion on response data for various crops and
alternative production responses are presented in Working Paper 6.  The
bas*, low and high estimates of production are summarized in Table 5.1.
5.06     The longer term impact on production would be stimulated by the
improvements in the efficiency of agricultural services at the national and
zonal levels that would be supported under the project. The impact on
production of the improvements at the national level is difficult to
estimate since they would be spread over several regions with varying agro-
climatic conditions, infrastructure and market potential. The focus of the
improvements would be directed mainly on the existing 160 surplus producing
4oredas which account for most of the estimated 1.8 million tons of
marketable surplus from the peasant sector. Alternative assumptions of the
project impact on this surplus are summarized in table 5.1, details are in
Working Paper 6, but reasonable estimates vary frcu a growth rate of 0.25X
to 1.02 annually. These growth rates are equivalent to incremental
production of about 8 to 37 kilograms per farm family annually in the
surplus Woredas, which, given past results from increasing extension
simultaneously with fertilizer use, is considered to be conservative.



- 54 -
5.07    In the North Western Zone, project activities can be more easily
linked directly to production responses. Evidence is already available in
the area on the responses to improved extension and fertilizer use, but it
is difficult to make precise assumptions on farmer adoption rates and
variations in response due to locational characteristics. Alternative
combinations of possible outcomes are presented in Working Paper 6. The
range of annual increases in production by year 5 as a result of the
project's strengthening of the N.W. Zonal Services is estimated at 15,000
to 25,000 tons, over and above the impact of increased fertilizer use
discussed in pars 5.05 above. The anticipated total increases in
production are large but they can be absorbed within the domestic market
given a currently estimated national structural food deficit of 1.0 million
tons and an annual population growth rate of 2.92.
---------------------------------------------------------------------__----
Table 5.1
Estimated Impact on Production 1/
Estimated Incremental Annual
Project Components          Production by end of Year 5
Base         Low       High
----------------------------------------------------------------
(000 tons)  (000 tons)    (000 tons)
1. Input Supply XI            775        465       930
2. Strengthening of 3/          45        20        90
Sectoral Services
3. Strengthening of 41          20        15        25
NW Zonal Services
TOTAL                    840       500      1045
1/   Details in Working Paper 6.
21   Based on returns of 5, 3 and 6 kgs of cereal of 1 kg of fertilizer.
31   Based on annual growth rates in peasant sector surplus of 0.5S, 0.25Z
and 1.02 respectively.
Al   Incremental production based on expansion of extension coverage from
260,000 to 650,000 farm families and average increase per family of 50,
35 and 65 kgs respectively.
5.08    Income Effects. The income from the production levels discussed
above would be widely distributed over the farm sector. The estimated total
farm income generated by fertilizer use in the Base Case production scenario
(Table 5.1) would increase from about Birr 200 million in FY88 to Birr 450
million in FY93. For the estimated 2.6 million farm families (402 of total)



- 55 -
who would be using fertilizers the net benefit would be about Birr 160 per
farm family. The Improvements in efficiency of sectoral and zonal services
would by themselves have * minor effect on farm incomes but they would permit
expansion in coverage of farmers for other services of greater impact on
income such as fertilizer distribution, credit and marketing through the
cooperatives.
5.09    More specific details of the project's expected impact on farm
incomes in the North-Western Zone are shown in the Farm Budgets in Working
Paper 6. The representative budgets for each major AEZ have been prepared by
MOA on the basis of extensive farm surveys in the Zone. For farm models A and
B which together represent about 85S of farms under extension, average
fertilizer consumption is expected to increase from about 0.5 quintal to 1
quintal with a corresponding increase of about BErr 100 in family income.
Farmers represented by model C (about 15X of farmers under extension) are not
expected to use fertilizer but to adopt improved farming practices. Estimated
fertilizer consumption and value of output per farm type would be as follows:
- - - - - - - Per Farm  - - - - - - -    Value of
Total                   Output
AEZ 11   Area    Fertilizer  Value of   Household    Per
(ha)    Consumption Output      Size         Capita
(quintal)    (Birr)     (Persons)    (Birr)
------------------------------------------------------------__--------------
Model A    T3 L4     i.5     1.0          620        5            124
Model B    T3 L3     2.05    1.0          920        4            230
Model C    T4 L4     2.0     0.0          540        5            108
11  See Map IBRD No: 21036
B.  Economic Analysis
5.10       The project builds upon existing extension and fertilizer
distribution systems from which immediate and sizeable benefits are expected.
It does not involve large investments in fixed capital with long pay off
periods but builds upon a considerable amount of sunk capital. Achievement of
even the "Low Case" estimates of production (Table 5.1) which are well below
present returns would generate a very high economic rate of return (ERR).
Even if benefits are lagged by one or two years the ERR would still be very
high. Therefore benefit/cost ratio (BCR) analysis is used to examine the
economic viability of the project and its components. A sumary of costs and
benefits is shown in Annex 5. The detailed assumptions on production and
prices are presented in Working Paper 6. The shadow exchange rate is
estimated at Birr 3.50 per US$ and the shadow wage rate is assumed to be equal
to the average rural market wage rate of Birr 2.0 per manday. On the basis of
these assumptions, the base case estimates of production (Table 5.1) and an
opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 10X, the BCR for the project is 2 over a
period of 20 years. The 'Low Case" estimates of production would generate a
BCR of 1.2



- 56 -
5.11       The three major components of the project, though interdependent
and mutually reinforcing, are also economically justified separately based on
their estimated individual effects on incremental production. For the inputs
supply component, including fertilizers as well as the strengthening of AISCO
and AIDB, the benefits are expected to exceed the costs by a considerable
margin even from the first year since most of the distribution and supporting
infrastructure are already in place; the BCR of the component is estimated at
2.3. For the improvements by MOA at the sectoral level, the base case
assumptions on production impact, which are conservative and feasible, would
earn a RCR of 1.1 or an ERR of 222. The strengthening of services in the NW
Zone is also economically justified with an estimated BCR of about 1.1 and an
ERR of 252.
5.12       The project as a whole would become marginal (a BCR of 1) only if
any of the following scenarios were to take place:
Ci)        if all costs were to rise by 105% or alternatively all benefits
were reduced by 50X;
(ii)       if there were to be a 251 shortfall in fertilizer expansion and a
20% shortfall in yields accompanied by a 202 increase in all costs
and a 252 fall in economic farmgate prices; and
(iii)      if there were to be an increase in the costs of fertilizers of 252
accompanied by "Low Case Scenario Yields' and an increase of 25'0 in
on-farm labor costs.
The expected likelihood of the occurrence of any of these scenarios is very
low. The project has been designed on the basis of the demonstrated
capabilities of the fertilizer distribution end extension syrtems. The recent
rapid increases in fertilizer use and the success of the pilot T&V project
demonstxate farmers' and MOA's interest in the activiti3s to be promoted under
the project. The data bases for project costs and production responses are
reliable; therefore large cost overruns or yield shortfalls are unlikely.
5.13     Risks  The main risks which could disrupt project implementation and
achievement of objectives involve (i) a possible reversal of the reform
program now being implemented by the government; (ii) inadequate farmers'
production response due to social and political factors outside of project
control; (iii) the lack of adequate government domestic resources to support
operating costs sufficient to sustain projects activities; and (iv) possible
negative political interference in the technical and economic decision making
process. The project design safeguards against these risks by including the
annual review and consultation system, the assurances on operational
procedures, the adequacy of the annual fertilizer financing plan and the
conditionality on maintaining producer incentives.  While the risks are real,
the payoff in a country with a large and incz.easing structural food deficit
would be high and fully Justifies taking the risks involved.
C. Environmental Impact
5.14     As the basic objective of PADEP is to increase agricultural



- 57 -
production through the use of improved technology and farming systems, the
overall environmental impact would be positive. The current largely
oxploitive farming system employed by the overwhelming majority of Ethiopian
peasants exacerbates basic soil degradation through a continuing process of
lowering fertility, destruction of soil structure, and reduction of soil
organic matter. Increased crop yields and Improved farming system developed
through the adaptive trial system to be supported under the National Field
Trials Program should begin to stoadily reverse this process. Increased crop
production would a*so make available additional livestock forage which, in
turn, should lessen the pressure on existing coumunal grazing lands. The
spearhead conservation-based watershed development and management activities
are expected to lead to the development of a national program which would have
far reaching positive effects on the onvironment. No environmentally
dangerous farm chemicals are planned to be used under the project and the
level of fertilizer use would be unlikely to adversely affect water quality.
The project would not cause or support any Involuntary resettlement.



CHAPTER VI
ASSURANCES AND RECOMHENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained as folLws:
Assurances for Strenathenint the MOA Manatement of Sectoral Services
(M)       the PCC would be maintained w_:h terms of reference and
membership satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01);
(ii)      the PCC would, in each year of the project, cause each
NOA department -- AMD, RTPD, PACPD, ADD, FD, PCMED --
and each Agency -- AISCO, AIDB, PSPI, PES, MIS --
participating in project implementation to prepare, by
April 30, an action program detailing, inter alsa, the
project related staff training, procurement and other
project activities and projected physical and financial
targets to be achieved under the project for the ensuing
year and send the combined program to IDA for
information (par"s 4.01, 4.10 and 4.12);
(iui)     the tenms of reference and qualifications of all
technical assistance staff would be satisfactory to IDA
and a technical assistance coordination committee would
be established to supervise performance of consultants
(para 4.11);
(iv)      following the completion ot ongoing consultant studies,
MOA would exchange views with the Association on the
main findings and recommendations arising from these
studies and agree on an action program for implementing
the EDP system (para 4.06), PES (para 4.07), Rural
Technology promotion (para 3.11) and the Bure - Silala
spearhead soil conservation and watershed management
(para 4.18) components;
Assurances for Strenathenint Technologv Development
(v)       MOA would ensure that the annual adaptive trial program
to be conducted by NFTP and NFIU and the extension
messages to be extended to farmers are first reviewed by
the national and Zonal RELCS (para 4.13);
Assurances for Strengthening the MOA North West Zonal Activities-Extension
and Cooveratives
(vi)      MOA would implement the agricultural extension
activities using three basic principles: (a) a direct



- 59 -
line of technical command from the regional extension
coordinator to the development agents, (b) extension
staff to be progressively relieved of all non-extension
activities, and (c) all staff would participate in a
regular training program and structured visiting of
farmers (paras 4.08);
(vii)     the rate of expansion of project activities across
Woredas In the North-Western Zone would be reviewed
annually by MOA and IDA in accordance with the agreed
criteria; the first such roview would be held by MBa. 31.
1989 (para 4916);
(viii)   HMA would (a) implement a program of regular supervision
and auditing of service cooperatives in the North-
western Zone (para 4.09); and (b) make the required
cooperative accounting and auditing staff appointments
by June 30. 1990 (para 4.09);
(ix)      disbursement for conservation activities would be
effected only after IDA has approved the related annual
work program (para 4.18);
(x)       PDRE would employ consultants to prepare the proposed
National Agricultural Resources Conservation Project
(para 4.18);
Assurances for Strenethenina Input SuPPlY and Distribution and Agricultural
Credit
(xi)      PDRE would conduct the Fertilizer Sub-Sector Study under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30. 1990
and would exchange views with IDA on the action program
emerging from the main findings and recommendations of
the study (para 4.23);
(xii)     by May 15 of each Year, AISCO would prepare and furnish
to the Government a peasant sector fertilizer
procurement schedule which would include, among other
things, the estimated total foreign exchange required
for the procurement of fertilizer and the sources of
such foreign exchange. The Government would take all
measures necessary to raise funds to finance fertilizer
not covered by the IDA credit (para 4.22);
(xiii)    PDRE and IDA would jointly review AISCO's annual
performance in accordance with the agreed performance
criteria and the annual project related action program
(paras 4.20);
(xiv)     the on-lending terms and conditions applicable to IDA
funds on-lent by PDRE under the project would be in
accordance with the understanding between PDRE and IDA



- 60 -
recorded in the exchange of letters of Aoril 21. 1988
(para 4.24);
Assurances for Grain Marketing and Pricins and Price Policy Analysis
(sv)      except as the Association and PDRE would otherwise
agree, PDRE would maintain its existing arrangements for
establishing the quotas for AMC purchases from the
peasant sector and for licensed trader activities (para
4.29);
(xvi)     should the quantity of foodgrains required by AMC in
accordance with the principles outlined in para 4.29 (a)
exceed the quantity of foodgrains available for
procurement consistent with the principles outlined in
para 4.29 (b), PDRE would, by April 30 in each year,
exchange views with the Association on ways and means of
meeting the deficit through the import of foodgrains
financed by external sources (para 4.30);
(xvii)    PDRE would inform IDA, by September 30 in each year, of
(a) its grain trading activities of the previous year;
and (b) grain trading arrangements for the following
year (para 4.30);
(xviii)   to provide producers with adequate incentives to upgrade
their technology and improve productivity, PDRE would
annually review producer prices for all quota grains
purchased by AMC and for all inputs sold by AISCO; and
as the analytical capacity of PSPI develops, PDRE would
expand its analytical framework for determining the
relative price levels of foodgrains in accordance with
the principles outlined in para 4.28;
(xix)     PDRE would inform IDA by December 31 of each year, of
(a) the official producer prices to be applied for the
following belg and meher harvests for all the main
grains to be purchased by AMC under the quota system and
(b) the prices to be charged by AISCO for all farm
inputs (para 4.28);
(xx)      by January 31. 1989, PDRE would inform IDA of the main
conclusions and recommendations arising from the food
security study (para 4.32);
(xxi)     PDRE would monitor and evaluate the impact of the grain
marketing and pricing reforms on an agreed set of key
agricultural sector indicators and would send a report
on their movements to IDA semi-annually for its
information, the first such report being due on March
31. 1989; and, by January 1. 1989, PDRE would inform IDA
of the final arrangements for conducting the monitoring



- 61 -
and analysis of the agreed set of indicators (para
4.31);
Assurances for Reporting. Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation and
Implementation Reviews
(xxii)    MOA, AISCO, AIDB and PSPI would send to IDA the semi-
annual progress reports on project implementation in
accordance with an outline satisfactory to the
Association and K.OA and PCMED would prepare a project
completion report (para 4.33);
(xxiii)   except for the first two project years when the reviews
would be semi-annual, PDRE and IDA would jointly conduct
annual project implementation reviews by December in
each year of the project (para 4.36)
(xxiv)    the MOA, AISCO and AIDB would maintain records and
accounts in conformity with Bank guidelines and furnish
the audited accounts to IDA not late- than six months
after the end of the fiscal year (para 3.35);
6.02     It was agreed, during negotiations, that PDRE would execute
subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with (a) AIDB (para 4.24)
and (b) with AISCO (para 4.21) as a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.03     Recommendation.  Subject to the above assurances, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR66 million (US$85 million
equivalent) to the Government of the Peoples Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia.



ETHIOPIA
PIASANI AGRICUtlIURE OEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Project Componlens by Ver
Totsls Inmluding Conti gmnci.s                                        Totals Includtng Contingenci.e
IBltl '000\                                                            IUsS  0001
88       89        90        91        92        93      total        a        U9        s0        91        92        93      Iot1I
cm:S:::: 2:2:2:23 2:::r::: aSn::: 22222222 2:238282 02*S22t2 2222822 22:::2t :a::::::: ::S:::s: :2:2:::: 2:::S:::: :22:2::::
A. N4ANCENENT Of SECTORAI SERVICES
.......... .............. .. ..... .. .... .
1. PROJECt COORDINATION. N A E                                  358.0  1. 260. 1  1, 126. 7    220.2    228.5    237.0   3. 430.5    172.9    608. 7    544 3    106.4    110. 4    114 5   1. 657. 3
2. FINANCIAL CONIlROL                                            36.0      89.4    158.1       24.2      25. 1     26.1      358.9      17 4     43.2      76.4      II 7      12 1      12.6      173.4
3. EAIENSION MATERIALS. PRINTING AND EDITORIAL SERVICE           24.0  1,677.2       35.5      30.?         -         -   1.767.5       11.6    810.2      17.2      14. 9        -         -      653.9
4  AGRICULIURAI EXTENSION AND IRAINING IIHADQUARTERS            636.0    642.3    311.8    315.6    278.3    259.?   2,465.8    308.2    310.3    150.6    162.1    134 4    125.5   1,191 2
S. COOPtRAIlVE DEVELOPEINI NO                                   597.0  1,363.3  tl 132. ai, 201. 1  1.079.3  1. 117.6   6,490.?    288.4    658.6    547. 1    580 2    521.4    539.9   3,135.6
6. RURAI NNEN AfFAIRS DIVISION                                       -    592.5    345.4    35?. I    369.9    393.2   2. 048. 2           -    286.2    166.9    172 5    178.7    185. 1         989 5
Shb Total MANAGEMENT OF SECTORAL SERVICES                         1,653.0  5.624.S  3.110.0  2. 168.9  1.981. 1 2.023.8  16.561.6    798.6  2,717.3  1.502.4  1.047.8    957.0    977 7   8,000 8
B. TECHIINOLOGICAL IPROVEMENTS
t. NAIIONAL  FIEtO IRIAtS                                            -    910.7    570.0    523.8    491.9    550.4   3.046.8              -    440.0    275.4    253.0    237 6    265.9   1.471.9
2. RURAL TECHNOLOGY                                             315.0  2,266.2  1.208.3    949.0    564. I    505.3   5.807. 8    152.2  1,094.6    583.7    458.4    272. 5    244. I   2t805.7
Sub-tlotal ILECHNLOGICAL IMPROVEIENTS                               315.0  i, 176.9  1,778.3  1,472.7  1,056.1  1.055.7   S.854.6    152.2  1.534.7    859.1    7t1.5    510.2    510.0   4.277.6
C. Dl IvERY OF SERVICES IN TIHE
NORINHEISlIRN ZONE
1. LONAL OFFICE                                                 110.0  1.339.5  1,09. g    1, 156.4  1,208.0  1,261.6   6.095. 3       53. 1    647.1    492.5    558.7    583.6    609.6   2,944.6
2. EXLENSION SERVICE                                             5t.7  3,322.5  2,233.4  2.544.7  2,234.2  2,286.5  12,673.0           25.0  1,605.0  1,07C.9  1.229.3  1.079.3  1,104.6   6.122 2
3. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT                                      315.0    463.9    202.2    284.7    281.9    447.4   1.995.2    152.2    224. I            97.?    137.6    136.2    216.2        963.9
4. INIEGRAIED MAIERSHED OEVELOPMENT                                  -  1.274.2    716.7    549.3    570.0    591.4   3.701.7              -    615.5    346.2    26S.4    275 4    285.7   1,788 2
Sub-local DELIVERY OF SERVICES IN TrHE
NORITHWESTERN ZONE                                              476. 7  6.400. 0  4, 171. 9  4,535.2  4,294. 1  4, 587. 2  24, 465. 1    230.3  3, 091. 8  2, 015. 4  2. 190.9  2,074.5  2, 216.0  11, 818. 9
0. IMPROVEO INPulT SUPPtY
..... .......... ........
1. suPptY OF INPUTS                                                 - 34.460.0 36.133.2 41,181 8 39,560.7 25.492.9 176.828.7                 16,647.4 17.455.7 19.894 6 19,ll 5 12315.4  85,424.5
2. AISCO                                                        225.0   , 638.0  5, 721. 6  1,954. 7     65. 2     67. 6  16. 671. 9    108.7  4. 172.9  2.764. 0    944.3     31. 5     32.6   S. 054. I
3. A19.                                                              -    429.3      16.8              -              -      446.1         -    207.4       8.1              -                    215. 5
4. FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR STUDY                                        -    276.1    286.5          -         -         -     562.6          -    133.4    138.4          -         -         -      271 8
------- ~~~~~~~~ -- - - - - - - - . - - - - - - - -   - - -  ... . ...  .. . .    ..... .   ... . .    ... . .    ... . .   ... . .    .... . .
Sub-Total IMPROVEO INPut SUPPLY                                     225.0 43,803.4 42,158.1 43. 136.5 39,625.9 25,560.5 194509. 4    108.7 21. 161.1 20,366.2 20,838.9 19.142 9 12.,348.0  93.955 9
E. IHL PRICE SIUDIES AND POLICY INSIITUTE                               -    460.8    178.8    185.0    128.1    132.9   1,085.7              -    222.6      86.4      U9.4      61.9      64.2      524.5
-- - -   - -- -   - - --   - - - -   - - - - -- - - - - -- - -    . . ..    .. . . .    ... . .   .. . . .    ..... ..    .... ....    .. .. .... .
lotal PROJECT COSIS                                                2,669.? 59,466.0 51,397.1 51,498.3 47,085.3 33.360.0 245,476.4  1.289.7 28,727.5 24.829.5 24.878.4 22.?46.S 16.116.0 118,587.6
September 28. 1988  IS: 18
IEl



ElNIOPI4
PASANT A*llcULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ptojgct Compamsfltt by Year
IDIRI  o0l00
Base Costs                                 Total
88       89        90       G9        92       093        BI; R    loSs1'00
A. NANAGENLNI Oi StCIORAL SERVICES
............ .......................
I PROJtCI COOROID4IION. N A E                                  358.    . 1, 90. S  1, 025. 5    182.6    182.6    182.6    3,121.8    1.508. 1
2  fINANCIAL CONI4RO                                            36.0      82.0    138.0      20.0      20.0     20.0       316.0      1t2 7
3. ETETNSION NATERIAlt. P33ING  ND110 fOIIORIA4  SERVICE        24.0  1.493.9      33.5      28.0         -         -    I,579.4       763.0
4  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING HEAOU4ARTERS            638.0    568.1    271 4    281.8    220.3    195.8    2. 176.4    1,051.4
5. COOPERA41VE DEVELOPIIENT HO                                 597.0  1.197.3    938.0    962.0    830.0    830.0    5.354.3    2.586.6
6. RURAt WO!EN AFfAIRS OIVISION                                    -    532.3    286.7    286.7    286.7    288.7    1. 679.1          811. I
Sub-lotal 1!ANAGElNt4 01 SECIORAt SERVICES                     1;653.0  5.065.0  2.693.;1  ;.      ; 7 ;. 539.6  ;,S1;.;   ;4.226.9    6 872.9
B. TECHNlIOGICAL IIIPROVEIIENIS
..  . . . ...........
1. NATIONAL  IELD TRIALS                                           -    8905.7    497.5    434.0    381.1    406.6    2,524.9    1.219 7
2. RURAL ILCH4NOOGY                                            315.0  2,016.9  1.025.1    784.1    439.6    371.6    4.952. 3    2.392. 4
Sm. lotal TECHIINLOGICAL INPROVNEN4TS                             315.0  2,822.6  2,522.6  12,28.2    820.7    778.2    7,477.2    3.612. ;
C. DEtiVERY OF SERVICES IN THE
NORIHMESIERN ZONE
1. ZONAt OfIICE                                               .110.0  1.274.0    949.8  1.043. 1  1. 052.?  1,062.3    5.491 9    2,653. 1
2. EITENSION SERVICE                                            47.0  2,965.0  1.952.4  2. 167.3  18495.9  1,820.8   10,798.4   59216.6
3  CODPIRAIIVE DEVELtOPMENT                                    315.0    438.7    187.0    256.1    245.2    377.2   12819.2            878.8                                                                       1
4. INTGRAIED WATERSHEO DEVELOPMENT                                    1,130.0   60.8    448.6    448.8    446           3 085.2    1,490.4
Sib-lo.al DELIVERY Of SERVICES IN THE
NOROHELS IHUN ZONE                                             472.0  5.807.7  3.698.0  3,915.3  3,992.6  3,709. 1  21.194.7   10.239 0
0. IMPROVED INPUTI SUPPLY
....... _.... _. . ..
I  SUPPLY OF INPUTS                                                - 30,630.0 30,948.0 34.086.0 3t,912.0 19.542.0  146.718.0   70,878.3
2. AISCC                                                       225.0  7. 708.6  4.918.6  1,628.6       57.2     57.2   14.595.2    7 050.8
3. AIDS                                                   ,         -    381.8      14. 4        -        -         -      396.0       191.3
4. fERTILIZER SUBSECTOR SIUDY                                       -    270.0    270.0          -        -                5 940.0     260.9
S%f-lotal IMPROVED INPUT SUPPLY                                   225.0 38, 990.2 36. 1;5.0 35, 74.6 31 569.2  99 599.2  162,249.2   78.38;.3
E. I1E PRICE STUDIES AND POLICY INSTITUTE                              -    420.3    163.0    163.0    107.0    107.0          960.4      464.0
lotal BASEIINE COSTS                                              2. 6SS.0 53. 205.? 44.227.; 42. 772.  3?. 620. ; 25. 708. 6  206. 108. 3   6099569. 2
Physical Contingencios                                             4.7  5,033.0  4,184.1  4,206.0  3,639.9  2.448.4   10.412.2    9,377.9
Pr ice Cant I ngo   ea                                                -  2,327. 3  2.895.2  4,620.21  9,820.2  9.203.0   19.959. 9     , 640. 5
total PROJECT COSIS                                               2.669.? 51.466.0 51.397.1 591498.33 47,085.3 33.360 b  24S9476.4  118 587.6
Taxs                                                               9.9  9,229.8  2. 198.4;I. 2i6.3    518.0   9549.8    0. 33.8    46 954.0 
foreign Eschange                                               2.066.5 42.001.8 37.1 08. 8 37. 115. 6 34.200. 3 22.625.8  175. 118.?   84, 598. 4
. .... .... ,................... ................. ............................ ......... ............ .. ..... .... . ...... .. ... . ... .. ....... ....._.
Septastar 28, 2188  15:18 28
ID00
b: 



- 64 -
Annex 2
PEOPLES  DEIOCIATIC RPUILIC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT A8RICUDTURAL KEVELOPIENT PROJECT
ESTIhATED SCHOULE OF LOAN DIS9URSEIEIT
(US$ million)
IDA FY      Estisated 1/      Profile
and        By  Cumul-  By  Cumul-                                 DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
Seesters Smester ative Sewster ative
----------            ------ ------ ----
FY89    1      1.3   1.3       v.0      0.0      70 '
11    12.0  13.3       2.6      2.6      0          
FY90    1      9.0  21.3       6.8      4.3
11     8.0  29.3    11.9        5.1      so 
FY1    1       9.0  38.3    24.7    12.7   1
ll    10.0  48.3    36.6    11 9  ;  40              
FY92    1     11.0  59.3    46.9    10.2
11     9.0  68.3    52.7        5.9      30 -
FV93    I      7.0  75.3    61.2        8.5
11     2.0  77.3    66.3        5.1       0                    /
FY94    I      2.0  79.3    71.4        5.1      10
II     2.0  81.3    76.5        5.1 
F9     I       2.0  83.3    81.6        5.1       0
1I     1.7  85.0    85.0        3.4      rose         v           vs         FM                     e ms
Note: I/Based on profile of agricultural sector for Ethiopia (Oct.19881
adjusted to take account of PPR and disbursements into Special ccounts
and for fertilisers.
IDA Fiscal Year: July I - Jtus 30.
Dates:
N Negotiations September 1988
: hard Presentation October 1999
s Effectiveness January 1989



- 65 -
Annex 3
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR M&E SUGGESTED KEY INDICATORS
--       open market prices for the key grains in the main markets of the
country.
--       AMC monthly purchases, imports, sales and stocks by type of grain,
by source of supply and by customer.
--       Monthly imports of food aid and other relief food supplies by type
of commodity.
--       Monthly rainfall patterns by main region.
--       Number of operational licensed traders by region and awraja.
--       Monthly imports, sales and stocks of fertilizer.
--       Annual statistics on production, area and yield by region for all
field crops.
Annual movements in farmer income, consumption and cropping
pattern by region.l/
Annual movements in farm family terms of trade by main rogion  s
measured against a basket of commodities. 1/
1/ With the exception of these two indicators, all of the required data are
currently available. Some data for these 'impact' indicators are
available in CSA but new data will be required. Agreement would be neetd
on an appropriate survey program that would produce such information
either directly or through acceptable proxy indicators.



THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUUBLC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Oft, of ft mkmw  Ministry of Agriculture Organizaton Chart
RMWa hVrasbucture                 Aa~mal & FRh C111ke d s                                                       ou
_evelopnt  D SRe    _e v e clopmc w
MainInwt                         Main DemeWW
TecircI           ac*ev                         A,*dmal in        Peasenit Associatlon   POWn        Sate oat ti      comertrifly For"sa
Sgnvicos  DLding Maedl                      & Feed Re&ue           oprtv            Protection       M                a wsao
Sochp , & iibln                   Development         Promtio           Qwentinr     DveDovolnt
Seivic. ~   Arir
owI                      R    S                         <aPch
TeWMwd ospartmiord                                         Depamom Ad
Rr l   A1tr                 _di                                     maoe                           Foo.
DepadmDment    morion   DhD                   Dspnt
ftui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pcfua
-- - -- - -- - -- -    - - - - --- --
sGc0S  _ _   BuldheS9t-s  St  _ _   aFdRs    acOopvs    L J    ~~~Pfot&on   I  I%*f co&   6            c 
---- ---   ---           r--         -    --
I'-I                       1'''"-1                1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
_ _ _ _    _  _ _ _ _ _ ,   _ _      _ _ _                                ,kl
___  ___    ____                   _.*                P____    z b____                     I~~~~~~~%WpW&ft
r''~~~o""                                     drw _,. a^X1



-67-                              A-ex   4.2
THE PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of PADEP Extension
OrganizatIon
Genra Manager
it             Trainin
I
ZONAL LEVEL                    I              I            I                I
Arimal      Agriculure +    Natural       Z Extnsn wr
Resor           GOs         Resources   Coordnwor (ZEC)
I                             .              .            B  
....   ....    ......
Awraa He                                 -C
I                  ~~~~~~~A. E.Venelon 
I    ICoops                               ___ 
I                            I                  (AEC)  .,
AWRAJA LEVEL                   -A     nt         Anbima        Agr    me1,   NauralW       '
supesor       Resr(2) +2                    Res_urm 
(2)4.2                       (2),2
WoredaHeHd          I          -
I                      W.Exbtbn  ---J
Coona0EC)
WOREDA lEVEL                    - Accountt                         I
-0make
I                                -Pod~~~~~~~~fwucarCoope 
Delopment Agents 0-10
........... 6 
5d .6. 5 d .. . 5  .. . 5d... . .
- m a*o Li (Rsp_,n. Finanng Managemt Mbarhy)
~----          Biteraim boen timi Lb*
.........T6dinlo4iP0t41nt TrsbnlnLh*
I/Whom the mmber d  Woroda exoed SIn any Awraja. two SMS teams
w_s be retdrmd a wai as an assd_a Extenion Coordiat.
_we



Genr" Manage                          THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO)
MMr & ftwam"                                                          Organization Chart
Plocemen &                        S.le . D lusbi
fAtn*almn Domwin                   PbwIC Depir                 Trani DSt ni1"en
- PN PRoon Proc.
Vet. Medicki Proc.
r~~r
Adn*Vsa-    Iriig      Srie         olctn    &Bde       Accoett    Divsion    hiajrenceo
Umon ivsion Ouo         iiin        iinDvso              DivisiSn
H  H H
'onw I Ce.    .  
ft/dW  bt



-69- 6                                                               5
P0PLEIS DEIIOCMTIC REPU0LIC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT A6RICULTIRAL DEVELONT PROJECT
Econoic Analysis            18irr dliion)
Project Yer        0         1        2        3        4         5   6-25
COSTS
Project Costs
Sectoral Nanagquent              1.6      S.1      2.7       1.8      1.5      1.5      2.5
Technological lprovmnts         0.3      2.8      1.5       1.2      0.8      0.8       1.5
Input Supply Services           0.3       8.1      4.        1.6      0.1      0.1      0.6
lanal Servicn                    0.5      5.8      3.7      3.9       3.6      3.7      5.0
PSPI                                      0.4      0.2       0.2      0.1      0.1       0.2
Fertilisers 1/                           44.0     55.4     81.8    112.6    136.4    136.4
Other Inputs                              0.6      0.3      0.3       0.2      0.2      0.2
Total Dase Costs                  2.6     66.8     68.7      90.9    118.9    142.9    146.4
Physical Contingencies                    6.4      6.7      9.9      11.7     14.1      14.1
Total                             2.6     73.2     75.4     9.7    130.7    156.9    160.5
of which
Local                            0.7     11.9     12.2      16.0     20.9     25.1      26.0
Foreign Exchange                 1.9     54.9     56.6     74.8      98.0    117.7    120.4
Adjusted Fordign Exchange 2      3.2     92.9     95.6    126.5    165.7    199.0    203.5
Total Project Casts               4.0    104.7    107.8    142.5    196.6    224.1    229.6
Far  Labour                               9.6     15.7     24.7      34.4     43.0     43.0
TOTAL COSTS                       4.0    114.3    123.5    167.2    221.0    267.1    272.6
BEIEITS
Yalue of Production
From
-Input Supply                          169.1    213.0    314.5    432.9    524.2    524.2
-Sectoral Services                       6.1     12.2      18.4     24.5     30.7     30.7
-Zonai sevices                           0.0      2.0      5.7       9.5     13.2      13.2
TOTAL DENEFITS                    0.0    175.2    227.3    338.6    466.9    568.1    568.1
MET Bhnefits                     -4.0     60.6    103.7    171.4    245.9    300.9    300.9
NP¶I        interest rate      Ratio
Net kenef its    0.485033689      8002
Costs           1726.623959        10t
Denef its       3519.625809        102
Benef it/Cost Ratio                                2.04
I/ Incluides all local costs to f aregate.
21 Dy set



- 70 -
Annex 6
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Documents Relatint to Prolect Appraisal
1. HIS - Proposal and Consultants Report.
2.  AISCO - Logistics Study.
3. AISCO - Fertilizer bagging and blending plant.
4. Extension Materials Printing and Editorial Services, MOA Proposal
and Consultants Report.
5. NFIU- General Crop Response to Fertilizer Application in
Ethiopia, NFIU Working Paper 28.
6. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire.
7. Government of Ethiopia Grain Pricing and Marketing Study.
8. A List of grain surplus and potential surplus woredas.
9. Revised Rural Credit Policy.
B.    Prolect Preparation Documents
1. Gojam - Gonder Preparation Report.
2. Review of Farmers Incentives and Grain Marketing.
3. Review of Agriculture Credit and Cooperative Development.
4. Agricultural Technology in WIK region by Harrison, WIK
preparation report.
5. Project -iroposed for a training Program on Fertilizer
Distribution, Marketing and Credit for SCs in Ethiopia. NFIU
working paper No. 25.
6. Ethiopian Highlands Reclamation Study Executive Summary.
7. National Field Trials Overview.
8. A Practical Application of FAO's FSD approach in Ethiopia.



.
- 71 -                          Annex 6
C.    Sector Documents
1. A Strategy for Growth - A Sector Review No. 6512-ST.
2. Export Action Program - Report No. 6432-ET.
D.    Working Papers
1. Monitoring and Evaluation working Paper.
2. Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO) Working Paper.
3. Terms of Reference for Fertilizer Sub-Sector Study.
4. Agricultural Credit Working Paper.
5. Detailed Project Cost Tables.
6. Production Est$mates, Farm Budgets and Prices.
7. Sector Data Tables.
8. Key Features of the North-Westeru Zone.
9. Project Implementation Schedule.



MAP SECTION
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I



IBERD 17512R1
ETHIOPIA
.13 '  ,ii                              -MAIN AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
OF THE HIGHLAND PLATEAU
Agr en~io  ow  lh   etal
<< ~~' '; ) < e ~~~~ < j~ -3                                                                                         jjjhlands loen 15$ meters).
'a                         *~~~~~~,            L~~~~'j     Htoo     Potential
[/  /         2                  >       ', !    _1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'-  IloIttes (rainlolzl), In nr,l,n,ntrsle
;lArrouM                                                                   ,*. _;4    \)  t               X                -     All .oeth., Roods
Ar'o'  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    7.'                - ~~~~~R,els,  =   PtaSg3t Irtiqoted Areas
-. .iMainForest Ar,so
twin,.  -  8bn,r_              \         d  -                     r'          _ __ Pron-ince loundar'es
*._-    _____N''N
L E &0         )       /                a       ~        /               5      U0A0 <
Sl ~ ~~~ ~     ~~              ~        ~~                            ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l     -4  '!    raisEs
ARBI
600~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIOT
R "'~~~~~~~~8
K  E~ ~ ~ ~~~~- 
K    E    N    'y  A                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY 18i



OMID 17556R
I!A.t. OF EGYPT         SAUDI                        40                           44
tr*L   ARABIA
r< o                                        E T H I O P I A
o   PD.R  >
SUDAN  (                 YEMP                                       PADEP ZONES
Addlis 
(v _Ababa _SOMALIAi
>>     9  E HIOPIA    7 /           
E HIOP          .'-                                             Administrative Region Boundaries
- ---- Zone Boundaries                       20
*               /                                            -.-1    International Boundories
ZAIRE          KENYA               Cc e 
RWANDWJi 9  >                                                          O      100   200   300 KILOMEtERS
RUANZANIA $              SEYCHELiLS
NtA                                       0~        ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ Ioa  200O MILES
Ths  has been wd by  36 
The Woid Bw*ks staff \wvesy
to, the coniovnce of NI F1,n
,ados snd a *.ckl fo hc
nlomal us of The Viode 8w*  
ane ft hbnam   Fne a e
Corpo,atn The Tenew ns     J                                   . 
.see ane fe bovunanedn.                
On .s MArP do not t*. , am                                                                                      l6a-
16  pnOThr   nl*nmS|1 6
pas of The meob Bard. and me
h1e,nehonal Fww4v CoPrabon  *-
any pdWnenl on e* egalst .tes
of y wory or any         IC\  ~-3                             '
endoWsea.ne *I accopanCO O f!-r
Such bol,dens
P RADE P                            f l\ tu  YEMENARAB         P. D. R.
YEMEN
S U D A N    jTI G RAY \               
_} GONDER    § ,6\                               t     }       v-_
12                                   PADEP i7TT   DBOTI                                          12
12°                                                   WELO      DJIBOTI      
.^2 1GOJA&   _
| WELEGA A,PD                                                  PADEP  VI
;            V           *>~~~~~~~Addis Ab 
raft"i                          s H EWA                          HAEG
f- X~~~~~~~~~PADEP V   AERE-  
8 C ~~llUBABOR                                                   /                                               RS AEPY.
9 ~~~KEFA                                  PA E
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.IGAMO-                                    S  ALE 
\,JGOFA/
f    l  PA~~DEP Im                                     00 _
/-.+.A W                ~~~~S I D A ML O 0                             S 0  M  A  L I A
49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
UGANDA                         K E N Y A               40                             440
JULY 1988



612D 210O3
6                                                           138
ETH IOPIA                                                                    I           =
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IW 
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL                                                                        t o
oe   o A. Ane le&doa.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    _                                                                 e mepo
PADEP Zone I North-Western                                                                                          148-
Major Agro-ecological Zones
Lenqlh d                                                     _
Growing Period
Elevation                  Tmrrtr
in meters    LIl Lill LIV LV   ieaC._ure
500-1300   T2           D  22.5-27.S                                                        -_
1300.2200N T3               17.5-22.5
2200-3000 N T311 12.5.17,5 2G?',> Debark,
>3000    TS 1                12.S
%oISOi  1  210O27O    1                                                  0 
150-210  2M330                                                           D ebai
Day0 *b
Reg:on boundaries                                       Ayk.-
(3"leion capitals   .  r                                  AE                    R
o   Other towns 
All weather 4 
roads    .         4                                                         N
Riivers .)
Lake          Zemen 
-12De -  ' < gr , 12 -
12
>    '                                                     D                                 =               iA
0 X.               __________:-_____       _-_0DEBRE
\ s.:--- - ~~~~MARKO)S
10          O120040   60   80   100 Kllom
_ lOn ~~~~~~~~~~I                    I    I     I                                                          I10
0        20       40       60        80 Miles                 18°
July 1988



MM 21040
ETHIOPIA
MAJOR FOOD PRODUCTION AREAS,
> PASTORAL AREAS, AND WESTERN LOWLANDS
AW0IToff boslo
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi -                         -O(       <ESrh-mXhaLr,
K-1oum                     t                                                       Mo..  W.oogI
U Dr     A N                                                                  , '' _  toll.,
I A     l \;  .'  o  Wlo b .d-
1 O   at, 00M.  (gn 00i.d
UGND   UDA      N;,A    7 E   N.o. Y4-               /t                                         UGST1
DOJIBOUTI'0                             W
E   L     Q   /                    00       5    0
M11.R.             0.0       Gulf  of  Aden 
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        
e    n
G   ~ ~~"'NB   A                 L   E
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUDAN                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A MO                       /
4J 5'LChe~Bh
SOM A LI A ~7
UGANDA  ~             .'                                                   4                          8
'.5  II> ~~~K            N    Y., A     /
AUGUST 1988



