Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17256
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
(CREDIT 1956-ET)
DECEMBER 23,1997
Agriculture Technical Group 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Birr
US$1.0            =      2.07 Birr (at appraisal, 1988)
US$1 .0           =      6.51 Birr (at completion, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDB        -     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISE        -     Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise
AISCO       -     Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
ANRAB       -     Amhara National Regional Agricultural Bureau
ANRS        -     Amhara National Regional State
CBE         -     Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
DA          -     Development Agents
DCA         -     Development Credit Agreement
DBE         -     Development Bank of Ethiopia
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FTSS        -     Farmers Training Service Station
GOE         -     Government of Ethiopia
ICR         -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA         -     International Development Association
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOA/FD      -     Ministry of Agriculture/Finance Department
PA          -     Producers Association
PD          -     Person Days
PADEP       -     Peasant Agricultural Development Project
PCMED       -     Project Coordination, Monitoring & Evaluation Department
PCU         -     Project Coordination Unit
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PPD         -     Planning and Programming Department
RAB         -     Regional Agricultural Bureau
RTPC        -     Rural Technology Promotion Center
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
TGE         -     Transitional Government of Ethiopia
Vice President              .        Callisto Madavo
Director                    .        Oey Meesook
Technical Manager           :        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader            .        Bhagwanti Khushalani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................................................i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction.1
Project Objectives .......................................................1
Achievement of Objectives ........................................................2
Factors Affecting Project .......................................................7
Project Sustainability .......................................................8
Bank Performance .......................................................8
Borrower Perfonnance .......................................................9
Assessment of Outcome.                                                                             9
Future Operations .......................................................                          10
Key Lessons Learned .......................................................                        10
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A:  Project Costs ....................................................                            23
Table 8B:  Project Financing ....................................................                        24
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................              25
Table !0:   Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................               26
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .....................                          30
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................             30
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                31
Appendices
Appendix A:              Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B:              Economic Analysis
Appendix C:              Maps
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
[CREDIT 1956-ET]
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Peasant Agricultural
Development Project I (PADEP I) for which Credit 1956-ET in the amount of SDR 66
million (US$85.0 million equivalent) was approved by the International Development
Association (IDA) on October 18, 1988 and made effective on April 14, 1989.
2.    The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, two years after the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. The Credit disbursed SDR 60.6 million (US$82.4 million equivalent) as of
December 22, 1997. The disbursement account will be closed on December 31, 1997 after
which any undisbursed amount will be canceled.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Ms. Bhagwanti Khushalani (AFTA2) and was reviewed
by Messrs. Lorenzo Marchesini (Task Manager of the Project), Berhane Manna (AFMET),
Yosef Woldemichael (consultant) and Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager, AFTA2.
The Borrower provided their internal ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR started during the joint Bank/Borrower implementation
completion mission from October 6 to 23, 1997. It is based on material in the project file,
field visits to project area and discussions with Government officials and project
beneficiaries. The Borrower's staff from the Planning & Programming Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture (PPD/MOA) and the Amhara National Regional Agricultural
Bureau (ANRAB) participated in the completion mission. The views of officials of the
MOA, Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation (MEDAC) and ANRAB have
been reflected in the aide-memoire (Appendix A). The Borrower has indicated that they
have no comments on this Implementation Completion Report.



S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
[CREDIT 1956-ET]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Government of Ethiopia (GOE) and IDA entered into a policy dialogue in 1982
to enable the peasant sector to increase the production and productivity of food grain. This
was supported by a number of studies financed under the ongoing Minimum Package
Program (MPP) I & MPP II projects. Following an in-depth study on grain marketing and
pricing issues, the GOE, in January 1988, announced policy changes which removed
restrictions on inter-regional grain trade and allowed farmers to sell their surplus grain in
the open market. Under this scenario, PADEP I was approved in October 1988 and
became effective in April 1989. The project was extended by two years and closed on June
30, 1997 [para 11.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objectives of the project were to increase the production of foodgrain,
productivity and incomes of the peasant sector. In order to achieve these goals, the project
comprised the following components: (i) strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's
management of sectoral services; (ii) expanding and strengthening the sectoral capacity to
develop and test technological improvements; (iii) strengthening the delivery of extension
services, cooperative development, and watershed management services to farmers in the
Northwestern Zone; (iv) improving the supply and distribution of inputs, especially fertilizer;
and (v) supporting the continuous analysis of pricing policy and management of grain
reserves. Over seventy percent of project financing was allocated to the purchase of fertilizer
and the rest to strengthening agricultural support services [para 21.
3.    Project implementation was hampered during the civil strife from 1990 to 1991 and the
project activities were revised in 1992 giving more emphasis to economic recovery,
reconstruction and re-orientation towards a market-oriented system. Accordingly, some of the
activities such as (i) support to Price Studies & Policy Institute (PSPI), (ii) construction of six
fertilizer stores for Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise (AISE), and (iii) technical assistance
for project coordination and agricultural information systems, which had become irrelevant
due to changed economic environment, were eliminated. These changes, however, did not
affect the overall project objective lpara 3 & 41.
4.    The project activities were revised again in 1995 when the closing date of the project
was extended, initially for one year with an option to extend by another year pending
satisfactory performance during the first year. The proposed changes were consistent with the
project objectives and Government's policy on regionalization and decentralization.  It
contained a number of activities with particular emphasis on capacity building of the Regional



ii
Agricultural Bureau (RAB) and strengthening grassroots activities in the areas of women in
development, rural technology promotion, extension and cooperative development [para 51.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. In order to get a clear picture of achievements of project
objectives, the total project period has been divided into two, one before the extension of the
project and the other after the extension. The first period (April 1989 to June 1995) was
affected by the civil strife during 1990-1991. During this period, the project activities were
limited to procurement of fertilizer, vehicles, and office equipment. The delivery of services
in the Northwestern Zone stalled and development activities at the grassroots levels could not
be implemented. With the formation of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) in
1992, peace was restored and project activities started moving again. During the period 1992-
93, the project implementation suffered another set back following the restructuring, down-
sizing of the MOA and the regionalization process in the country, resulting in frequent staff
turnover and shortage of qualified staff at the regional/zonal levels.  The project
implementation was transferred to the Agricultural Bureau of the Amhara National Regional
State (ANRS - Region 3) in March 1993. In spite of these set backs, the achievements for
some of the activities during the first period were more than 50 percent of the target, and in
some instances even 100 percent. The Agricultural Extension, Rural Technology Promotion,
Field Trials, Cooperative Development and Agricultural Input Supplies performed quite well.
Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise (AISE), whose role finished in 1995, achieved 100
percent of the target for supply of fertilizer and 65 percent of the target for delivery of farm
equipment lAnnex 2 in Appendix Al.
6.    The second period (July 1995 to June 1997), was also marked by ups and downs
mainly because of the weak institutional capacity, shortage of qualified staff and again
restructuring at the regional level. However, if the performance during this period is
considered in absolute numbers, the project performed even better than the first period.
Building of residences and offices for the Development Agents, and the number of workshops
held under extension training exceeded initial targets. The Rural Technology Promotion
which included establishment of Farmer Technical Service Stations (FTSSs), Field Trials and
Crop Development activities performed exceptionally well. The activities which performed
poorly were farmers and fieldstaff training, and Rural Women in Development. Out of
planned 259 microprojects, only 47 were implemented (18 percent) and training for
developing skills for rural women was only 16 percent. None of the targeted workshops were
held. Their remaining activities were, therefore, merged with the Agricultural Extension
Department in 1997 [Annex 3 in Appendix Al.
7.    The main objective of the project was to increase crop production and productivity by
ensuring adequate and timely supply and distribution of fertilizer to the peasant sector. On the
basis of the data collected on the use of fertilizer supplied by the project, it is estimated that
the incremental foodgrain production would be about 1.2 million metric tons during the seven
years of the project (1989-1995). This is about 20 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
Thus the project did achieve its objective of increasing production of foodgrain, productivity
and thereby incomes of the farmers [para 281.



iii
8.   Improved Supply of Input: This was the single largest component of the project
amounting to more than 80 percent of the lending and its performance was highly satisfactory.
The strategy of government's pullback from grassroots inputs distribution by providing
financial and institutional support to the existing Agricultural Input Supply Company
(AISCO) for setting up a cost effective and timely input supply and distribution system was
achieved. To this effect, the project procured and distributed 242,000 metric tons of fertilizer
(100 percent of the target) and 3,250 sprayers (65 percent of the target) to farners through
AISE (formerly AISCO [para 101.
9.    Agricultural Credit: The success of providing agricultural inputs to farmers largely
depended on the availability of short-term credit to the peasant sector. This was done by
providing institutional support to Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE, formerly AIDB).
However, both DBE and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) together provided
production credit of Birr 136 million during the project period. Though we do not have the
exact figures for the project area, the recovery rates for DBE and CBE at the national level
were 84 and 98 percent respectively during the project period (1989-97). As a follow-up, the
Region is trying to provide production credit to the farmers through the Amhara Rural Credit
Service as well as other existing credit institutions [para 111.
10.   Project Costs and Financing: Actual project costs were US$87.8 million compared
with appraisal estimate of US$118.6 million. IDA credit disbursement as of October 31,
1997 were US$82.4 million compared with the appraisal estimate of US$85.0 million. The
Government contribution was US$5.4 million which is 16 percent of the appraisal amount
of US$33.6 million. It should, however, be noted that in Birr terms, the Government
contribution was 25.5 million but due to fluctuations in exchange rate, its dollar equivalent
is very low. At the request of the Government, an extension of additional two months (up
to December 31, 1997) has been granted to settle any outstanding expenditures incurred
before the closing date of the project [para 191.
11.   Bank Performance at appraisal and during implementation has been rated
satisfactory. Supervision was fairly regular, except during the periods of unrest and
restructuring. There was no supervision mission after February 1992 until March 1994.
This included the period of restructuring and had there been a mission fielded during that
period, it would have assisted in the project implementation. One of the reasons for not
fielding such a mission could be the change of task managers. The Bank could, however,
have insisted more on putting in place a monitoring and evaluation system to assess project
impact. The Bank promptly treated withdrawal applications and replenished the Special
Accounts. Concern was expressed by the Borrower at delays in disbursements and
replenishments. This was, however, not due to any slackness on the part of IDA but due to
delays in preparation and submission of the Statements of Accounts (SOEs) by the
Borrower [para 241.
12.   Borrower Performance was generally satisfactory. Procurement was accomplished
100 percent and all duties and taxes were paid. Policy reforms by the Government resulted
in liberalizing the grain trade. All audit reports were submitted, except the last one which



iv
is due in December 1997. Legal covenants were followed satisfactorily. The Special
Account B of AISE was closed on time. However, counterpart funding was short of
requirements and there were delays in releasing the allocated funds [para 19]. Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs) were not submitted by the Region on time due to insufficient
qualified staff, incomplete records, and the remoteness of Zones and Woredas resulting in
late replenishment of IDA funds which delayed carrying out some of the project activities.
There is an amount of approximately Birr 2.27 million advanced to the Region by
MOA/FD for which documents have not yet been submitted by the Region. At the request
of the Borrower, IDA has granted additional two months for settling outstanding
expenditures incurred before June 30, 1997. [para 25].
13.   Project Sustainability. The awareness which the project has generated among the
farmers on the importance and use of fertilizers, improved seed and farm implements,
agricultural extension services, coupled with the availability of short-term credit to the
farmers, have significantly contributed in increasing production and productivity. This will
go a long way in the sustainability of the project. Strengthening support to MOA, RAB,
AISE and DBE has built in enough institutional capacity to carry on the activities started
by the project. Further, Government's commitment of continued supply of adequate funds
and also incorporating many of the grassroots level activities in their normal program
[Annex 4 & 5 in Appendix A] is another major factor for the sustainability of the project.
Construction of houses and offices for the Development Agents (DAs), and increased
mobility of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and DAs to farmers, have led to closer
contact with farmers and enhanced improved input utilization. This is further strengthened
by the support given by the Rural Technology Promotion Centers (RTPCs) and Farmers
Training Service Stations (FTSSs) to the farmers (para 231.
14.   Assessment of Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory.
The two most important components of the project, (i) improved supply of inputs, which
accounted for more than 80 percent of the project lending, and (ii) agricultural extension,
amounting to 10 percent of the lending, were both highly satisfactory. On the basis of data
collected on the impact of the fertilizer in the project area, it would result in an estimated
average incremental production of about 1.2 million metric tons of foodgrain during the
seven years of the project (1989-1995). This is about 20 percent higher than the appraisal
estimate. Thus the project did achieve its objective of increasing production of foodgrain,
productivity and thereby incomes of the farmers. Development activities performed at the
grassroots level, availability of fertilizer and production credit to the farmers, and
strengthening of the institutional capacity of MOA, RAB, AISE and DBE have positively
contributed to the satisfactory outcome of the project. In spite of the problems of security
and the time spent in adjusting to the restructuring of the MOA, decentralization and
regionalization of the government, the project achieved most of its targets [paras 28, 291.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
15.   The following are the major findings and key lessons learned:



v
(a) While it is recognized that decentralization promotes project ownership and
effective management, sufficient capacity building should precede the transfer of project
activities.
(b) Having a strong, well-staffed and motivated Coordination Unit with authority
within the regional administration is essential for effective monitoring and implementation
of project activities.
(c) Preference of providing training to top cadres instead of those responsible for
project implementation at the lower levels does not provide the necessary know-how and
stability during the life of the project.
(d) The extension of the project by one year at a time, instead of two years at a
stretch, created uncertainties which affected project implementation, including advance
planning, procurement turn-around time, and timely replenishment of IDA funds.
(e) Training of financial and procurement management staff at all levels is critical
to the success and smooth operation of the project.
(f) Strengthening of the rural savings and credit institutions is essential for
sustainability of providing credits to the farmers to buy the required inputs in time,
resulting in increase in production and productivity.
(g) Setting up of appropriate procedures for submitting disbursement and
reimbursement requests from Woredas to the Region and Region to the Central level would
facilitate timely submission of SOEs to IDA for obtaining replenishment of the Special
Account.
(h) Rural Technology Promotion Centers (RTPCs) established under the project are
well equipped and staffed. For their sustainable growth, contact with the farmers through
the SCs alone is not enough. They should be encouraged to establish direct contact with
the farmers to promote their products.
(i) Cost recovery schemes should be an integral part of the FTSSs, and private
sector should be encouraged to provide similar services.
() The only solar pump established under the project is functioning well. It
generates electricity to provide water to about 400 households and their cattle from the
groundwell. The revenue generated from the nominal charges for usage of water by each
household makes this activity self-sustainable. Such investments should be encouraged by
the Government for the direct and indirect benefits derived by the farmers.
(k) Policy reforms, such as liberalizing grain marketing and removing restrictions
on inter-regional grain trade allowing farmers to sell their surplus grain on the open market
stimulated farmers to produce more. Such initiatives should be encouraged by the Bank.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
[CREDIT 1956-ET]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The origin of PADEP dates back to 1982 when IDA and the Government of
Ethiopia (GOE) entered into a long and intensive policy dialogue in order to agree on
minimum reforms and policy measures that provide incentives to farmers to achieve
increases in grain production and productivity. This dialogue was supported by a number
of studies financed under the then ongoing projects (MPP I & MPP II). Following an in-
depth internal study of the grain marketing and pricing issues, the Govermnent announced,
effective January 1, 1988, policy changes which removed restriction on inter-regional grain
trade and allowed farmers and traders to sell their surplus grain on the open market after
fulfilling their quotas. Under this scenario, PADEP I was appraised and approved in
October 1988 for a credit of US$85.0 million and became effective on April 14, 1989. The
Project duration was initially for a period of seven years, however it was later extended for
two more years. The Project closed on June 30, 1997. The proposed project executing
agencies were Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise
(AISE, formerly AISCO) and Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE, formerly AIDB).
After the decentralization of the administrative structure in 1992, the implementation of the
project was transferred to the Regional Agricultural Bureau of the Amhara National
Regional State (ANRS) in March 1993. T-he ANRS encompass the project area that
covered the North-Western Agricultural Zone encompassing Gojam, Gonder and Metekel
regions totaling to about 40 Woredas.  As a result of the  re-organization of the
administrative structure,  thirty-nine of the project Woredas fell within the five
administrative zones (North and South Gonder, East and West Gojam and Awi, excluding
Metekel) in Region 3, now part of the Amhara National Regional State (ANRS). Due to
the redefining of the Woreda boundaries again in 1995, the number of Woredas were
increased to fifty-two.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objectives of the project were to increase the foodgrain production,
productivity and income of the peasant sector. The strategy for achieving these goals was to:
(a) improve efficiency in the management and delivery of agricultural services; (b) improve
technology available to the farmers; and (c) support improvements in incentive framework for
producers while minimizing any adverse impacts on consumers. The project focused
exclusively on the peasant sector in the highlands and included five main components: (i)
strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture's management of sectoral services; (ii) expanding
and strengthening the sectoral capacity to develop and test technological improvements; (iii)



2
strengthening the delivery of extension services, cooperative development, and watershed
management services to farmers in the Northwestern Zone; (iv) improving the supply and
distribution of inputs, especially fertilizer; and (v) supporting the continuous analysis of
pricing policy and management of grain reserves. Over seventy percent of project financing
was allocated to the purchase of fertilizer and the rest to strengthening agricultural support
services.
3.    After the civil strife was over, the project activities were revised in the last quarter of
1992 giving more emphasis to economic recovery, reconstruction and re-orientation of
institutions towards a market-oriented system. These included: (i) strengthening field support
for the distribution and application of fertilizer, including procurement of fertilizer through the
Ethiopia Reconstruction & Recovery Project (ERRP), which was critical to rapid recovery in
agricultural production; (ii) short-term training in various fields related to supporting
implementation of the new economic policy; and (iii) financing of small scale irrigation and
water conservation under the Bure Watershed Pilot.
4.    These changes were still within the overall project objective of increasing agricultural
production and productivity. In order to provide resources to support these changes, some of
the project activities were eliminated either because they were no longer relevant to the
changed project environment or their relative importance had declined. These activities
included: (i) support to Price Studies & Policy Institute (PSPI) which had become obsolete
due to liberalization of trade in foodgrains and agricultural produce; (ii) construction of six
fertilizer stores for the AISE; and (iii) technical assistance for project coordination and
agricultural information systems.
5.    The project activities were revised again in 1995 when the closing date of the project
was extended, initially for one year with an option to extend by another year pending
satisfactory performance during the first year. The proposed changes did not affect the overall
project objectives and Government's policy on regionalization and decentralization and
contained a large number of activities with particular emphasis on: (i) capacity building of the
Regional Agricultural Bureau (RAB) administration, both in terms of human resource
development and institutional strengthening; (ii) strengthening of the regional research and
improvement of the research/extension linkage; and (iii) grassroots activities in the areas of
women in development, field trials and crop development, rural technology promotion,
extension and development of the cooperative sector.
Achievement of Objectives
6.    In order to get a clear picture of achievements of project objectives, the total project
period has been divided into two periods, one before the extension of the project (period 1)
and the other after the extension (period 2). Period 1 (April 1989 to June 1995) was affected
by the civil strife during 1990-1991. During this period, the project activities were limited to
procurement of fertilizer, vehicles, and office equipment. The delivery of services in the
Northwestern Zone stalled and development activities at the grassroots levels could not be
implemented. With the formation of the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) in 1992,
peace was restored and the project activities started moving again. During the period 1992-93,



3
the project implementation suffered another set back following the restructuring, down-sizing
of the MOA and the regionalization process in the country, resulting in frequent staff turnover
and shortage of qualified staff at the regional/zonal levels. The project implementation was
transferred to the Agricultural Bureau of the ANRS (Region3) in March 1993. In spite of
these set backs, the achievements for some of the activities were more than 50 .percent of the
target, and in some instances even 100 percent.  The Agricultural Extension, Rural
Technology Promotion, Field Trials, Cooperative Development and Agricultural Input
Supplies performed quite well. AISE, whose role finished with respect to the project in 1995,
achieved 100 percent of the target for supply of fertilizer and 65 percent of the target for
delivery of farm equipment.
7.    Period 2 (July 1995 to June 1997), was also marked with ups and downs mainly
because of the weak institutional capacity, shortage of qualified staff and again restructuring at
the regional level. However, if we consider the performance during this period in absolute
numbers, the project performed even better than the first period. Building of residences and
offices for the Development Agents, and the number of workshops held under extension
training exceeded initial targets. The Rural Technology Promotion which included
establishment of Farner Technical Service Stations (FTSSs), Field Trials and Crop
Development components performed exceptionally well. The activities which performed
poorly were farmers and fieldstaff training, and Rural Women in Development. Out of
planned 259 microprojects, only 47 were implemented (18 percent) and training for
developing skills for rural women was only 16 percent. None of the targeted workshops were
held. Their remaining activities were, therefore, merged with the Agricultural Extension
Department of RAB in 1997.
8.    The main objective of the project was to increase crop production and productivity by
ensuring adequate and timely supply and distribution of fertilizer to the peasant sector. On the
basis of the data collected on the use of fertilizer supplied by the project, it is estimated that
the average incremental foodgrain production would be about 1.2 million metric tons during
the seven years of the project (1989-1995). This is about 20 percent higher than the appraisal
estimate. Thus the project did achieve its objective of increasing production of foodgrain,
productivity and thereby incomes of the farmers.
9.   Institutional Strengthening: Project Coordination, Monitoring  &  Evaluation
Department (PCMED) of the MOA was responsible for implementation of the project, AISE
for handling the supply and distribution of the agricultural inputs, and DBE as well as CBE for
facilitating production credit to the peasant sector. In addition, Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) established at NW Zone was coordinating activities of different zones in the Region.
These institutions, including the three research stations, Adet, Sheno and Sirinka of the
Region, were strengthened by providing training, technical assistance, office and laboratory
equipment, and vehicles. 37 percent of the targeted local training and 66 percent of the
overseas training was provided during the project extension period of 1995-97. After the
restructuring and regionalization in the country, the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the project was transferred to the Regional Agricultural Bureau (RAB) of
the ANRS State in March 1993 and the PCU at Bahir Dar was dissolved. This called for
further strengthening of the RAB as well as Zonal and Woreda agricultural offices. The



4
monitoring of the project was undertaken by the Extension Division of the RAB till a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was established at Bahir Dar during the project extension period
(1995-97). Foreign procurement was still handled by MOA. The proposed position of the
monitoring specialist in the PIU remained vacant due to non-availability of skilled and
qualified local personnel. Even though the original organizational set-up was subject to a
number of restructuring processes and transfer of staff, the achievements of the project
activities indicate that the performance of this component was satisfactory.
10.  Improved Supply of Input: This was the single largest component of the project
amounting to more than 80 percent of the lending and its performance was highly satisfactory.
The main objective of the project was to increase foodgrain production and productivity by
ensuring adequate and timely supply and distribution of fertilizer and other inputs to the
peasant sector.  The strategy involving government's pullback from grassroots inputs
distribution and strengthening of the existing Agricultural Input Supply Company (AISCO) by
way of providing financial and institutional support for setting up a cost effective and timely
input supply and distribution system was achieved. To this effect, the project has financed
procurement and distribution of 242,000 metric tons of fertilizer (both DAP and Urea -
achieved 100 percent of the target) and 3,250 knapsack sprayers (65 percent of the target) to
farmers through the Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise (AISE, formerly AISCO). The
fertilizer and other inputs were distributed to the farmers through the Service Cooperatives
(SCs) and Peasant Associations (PAs). Construction of six stores with a capacity of 15,000
MT was foreseen but was not implemented since their relative importance had declined due to
changed project environment and the funds for these were reallocated. The AISE completed
its operation with IDA on June 30, 1995 and closed its Special Account B.
11.   Agricultural Credit: The success of providing agricultural inputs to farmers largely
depended on the availability of short-term credit to the peasant sector. This was done through
providing institutional support to Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE, formerly AIDB).
Production credit was incorporated in the project in such a way that it would be financed from
the IDA credit allocated for fertilizer import, where this fund would be on-lent to DBE by the
Government to finance fertilizer purchase by AISE. As the fertilizer was bought by AISE,
credit was made available by DBE to the farmers through the Service Cooperatives (SCs).
During the project period, DBE provided production credit of Birr 78.8 million. The
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) was also involved in providing production credit and
provided Birr 57.3 million from 1993 to 1997. Though we do not have the exact figures for
the project area, the recovery rates for DBE and CBE at the national level were 84 and 98
percent respectively during the project period (1989-97). As a follow-up, the Region is trying
to provide production credit to the farmers through the Amhara Rural Credit Service as well as
other existing credit institutions.
12.   Agricultural Extension: This was the second largest component (10 percent of the
lending) and it performed satisfactorily. The focus of this component was the dissemination
of usable technologies, upgrading of staff capability and subsequently improving the crop
husbandry practices in the peasant sector. Accordingly about 46 percent of Woreda SMSs and
Development Agents (DAs) were provided training. Of the total field visits planned, 40
percent were carried out between SMSs and DAs and 19 percent between DAs and Contact



5
Farmers. The number of zonal and woreda workshops and construction of houses and offices
for DAs (financed by local resources) exceeded the targets. This helped farmers to be in closer
contact with the DAs contributing to the dissemination of extension services.
13.   Technological Improvements:   This component aimed at increasing food
production through the development, promotion and use of appropriate agricultural
technologies and strengthening of the linkages between extension and research and its
performance was satisfactory. Field trials were 71 percent of the target during 1989-95 and
95 percent during 1995-97. Two Rural Technology Promotion Centers (RTPCs) at Jimma
and Bahir Dar which are fully operational, and 15 Farmer Technology Service Stations
(FTSSs) were established at selected Service Cooperatives (100 percent of the target)
during the project period. Due to shortage of manpower, only one solar pump, out of the
two originally planned, was installed and is functioning effectively. Similarly, five biogas
plants, out of the targeted nine, were installed and are functional.
14.   Cooperative Development: This sub-component was marginally satisfactory. The
principal tasks under this sub-component were improving and strengthening the financial
management of the Service Cooperatives (SCs) by providing training in book-keeping,
accounting, auditing and technical assistance to its committee members. To this effect
training to cooperative accountants had been 58 percent of the target and that of
cooperative auditors 70 percent during the project period. Other training (book/store/shop
keepers, cooperative organizers and members) ranged from 15 to 51 percent. Seven
cooperative organizers went for short-term overseas training. Reasons for this average
performance were shortage of accountants and auditors at the zonal and woredas levels and
their heavy workload in performing other regular activities.
15.   Rural Women in Development:  Performance of this sub-component was
unsatisfactory. It was targeted to improve the life of rural women and consequently their
income through training, workshops and micro-projects like beekeeping, sheep and goat
rearing, cattle fattening, vegetable growing, etc. To facilitate their movement mules and
bicycles were purchased and given to the Development Agents and the Home Agents.
However, the achievements of this component did not meet with the expected results
mainly because of restructuring and again down sizing of the rural women affairs office at
the regional level, resulting in shortage of qualified personnel to carry out the activities.
Consequently, the remaining activities under this sub-component were absorbed by the
Extension Department of the RAB in 1997.
16.   Procurement:  Procurement was carried out by the MOA's Procurement and
Property Administration Section until the Region started to handle local shopping. Foreign
procurement was still handled by the MOA and at the close of the project, 100 percent
foreign procurement was accomplished and made available to the end users. Fertilizer,
vehicles, and office and laboratory equipment were the biggest lots procured by the project.
Performance of foreign procurement has been satisfactory in spite of the lengthy
procedures of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and shortage of local funds to clear
the goods on time. After restructuring, local procurement was done by the Region. To this
effect, the Region procured 10 desk top computers (59 percent), improved seed and



6
fertilizer for trials (57 percent), mules (56 percent), and bicycles (28 percent). No office
equipment could be procured. This could be attributed to the Region not being too familiar
with the procurement procedures and some of the internal regional government regulations,
e.g., requirement of three bidders, getting approval for purchases of more than Birr 50,000,
etc.
17.   Accounts and Audits: As per the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), two
Special Accounts A and B were opened. Account A was for the MOA and B for AISE.
AISE's operation closed on June 30, 1995 and their Special Account B was also closed.
Special Account A is still open. There is a balance of Birr 2.27 million for which
documents have not been submitted. The four month period granted by IDA to settle any
outstanding expenditures incurred before the closing date of the project expired on October
31, 1997. It has not been possible for MOA to receive all the expenditure documents from
the Region due to shortage of accounting staff and remoteness of the Zones and Woredas.
At the request of MOA, an extension of two more months has been granted (up to
December 31, 1997) to settle these outstanding expenditures, after which the remaining
balance will be canceled.
18.   As for the Audit Reports, these are all current for the MOA except for the last audit
report for the period 1996/97 which is due at the end of the year (December 31, 1997).
Some delays were experienced due to MOA not receiving documents from the Region on
time and incomplete records or loss of some of the documents. In spite of these
impediments, the performance in this regard has been satisfactory. All audit reports from
the AISE were received, except the last one for the year 1994/95 which was due by January
1996. The Borrower has agreed to send this report soon.
19.   Project Costs and Financing:  Project costs were US$87.8 million, 74 percent of
the appraisal estimate of US$118.6 milliorn (Table 8A). IDA credit disbursements as of
December 22, 1997 were US$82.4 million, 96 percent of the appraisal amount of US$85.0
million. Government's contribution was US$5.4 million which is 16 percent of the
appraisal amount of US$33.6 million (Table 8B). It should, however, be noted that in Birr
terms, the Government contribution was 25.5 million, but due to fluctuations in exchange
rate (Birr 2.07 to the dollar at appraisal, and Birr 6.51 at the close of project), its dollar
equivalent is very low. The GOE financing was low during 1989 to 1992/93 period,
however, it picked up since 1993/94 ranging from Birr 3.8 to 6.8 million. Due to
insufficient absorptive capacity of the Region to fully utilize the committed funds, the
Government was not able to allocate more than it did.
20.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) could not be calculated due to non availability
of data on indicators on development impact. However, since more than 80 percent of the
project lending was for import of fertilizer, an attempt has been made to assess possible
project benefits on the basis of the incremental production for the three major grain crops,
i.e., wheat, maize and teff, due to use of fertilizer provided by the project, assuming an
average yield of 5 kg. of foodgrain per 1 kg. of fertilizer. The resulting ERR (1000%) is
too high to be meaningful (Appendix B).



7
Factors Affecting the Project
21.   The factors that impacted positively on implementation and achievement of project
objectives were:
(i) Sufficient fertilizer was imported and made available to the farmers at a time
when Ethiopia was in financial difficulties during 1989-91 due to sharp decline of foreign
exchange reserves and overall budget deficit. It would have been difficult for the
Government to mobilize resources to finance this activity. However, IDA was able to
provide financial resources to procure fertilizer as well as strengthen AISE's capacity to set
up a cost effective and timely input supply and distribution system. This contributed to
the country's grain production and increase in farmers' income; and
(ii) Institutional strengthening at the MOA and the Regional levels has built-in
enough capacity which will help in sustaining project activities.
22.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were:
(i) Security situation related to the civil strife during 1990-91 and restructuring of
MOA which led to the suspension of all grassroots level project activities, except
procurement of fertilizer, vehicles, and office equipment;
(ii) Decentralization and regionalization process in the country which hampered
field activities during the 1992-93 transition period;
(iii) Disruption in the project activities due to the preoccupation of the newly esta-
blished Region 3 with matters relating to restructuring and re-organization during 1993-94.
(iv) insufficient counterpart funding amounting to US$5.4 million, which is about
16 percent of the appraisal amount of US$33.6 million (para 19);
(v) delays in procurement due to the Region's unfamiliarity with the procedures for
local shopping, combined with some internal regional government regulations (para 16);
(vi) lack of training to the lower level personnel who actually perform the work,
especially in the areas of procurement and finance;
(vii) delay in replenishment of IDA funds due to delayed submission of the SOEs,
many of which are still pending (para 17);
(viii) delay in release of matching funds during the first quarter of the year,
particularly for recurrent expenditures, from the Government due to the regulation that if
the money allocated could not be used during the year, it will have to be re-deposited in the
government account and re-requested in the next year. This contributed to delay in many
of the project activities;



8
(ix) high turn-over of the staff resulting in losing some of the well-trained personnel
both at the MOA and regional levels (paras 13 to 15);
(x) unattractive salaries and benefits contributed to shortage of qualified and skilled
project staff available locally (para 9); and
(xi) dissolution of the Project Coordination Office and non-appointment of a full-time
PIU Coordinator after it was re-established during the extension period (para 9).
Project Sustainability
23.   The awareness which the project has generated among the farmers on the
importance and use of fertilizers, improved seed and farm implements, agricultural
extension services, coupled with availability of short-tern credit to the farmers through
DBE and CBE, have significantly contributed in increasing production and productivity.
This will go a long way in the sustainability of the project. The institutional support
provided to MOA, RAB, AISE and DBE has built in enough capacity to carry on the
activities started by the project. Further, Government's commitment to continued supply
of adequate funds is another factor for the sustainability of the project. This is evident
from the operational plans submitted by the Government for the next three years (Annex 4
& 5, Appendix A) incorporating into their normal program most of the grassroots level
activities such as agricultural extension, cooperative development, crop development, rural
technology and input supply. Construction of houses and offices for the Development
Agents (DAs) and increased mobility of SMSs and DAs to farmers have led to closer
contact with farmers and enhanced improved input utilization. Farmer Training Service
Stations (FTSSs) and Rural Technology Promotion Centers (RTPCs) established under the
project are well equipped and staffed. However, for sustainable growth of RTPCs, contact
with the farmers through the SCs alone is not enough. They should be encouraged to
establish direct contact with the farmers to promote their products.
Bank Performance
24.   Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation has been rated
satisfactory. Supervision was fairly regular, except during the periods of unrest. There
was no supervision mission after February 1992 until March 1994. This included the
period of restructuring and had there been a mission fielded during that period, it would
have assisted in the project implementation. One of the reasons for not fielding such a
mission could be the change of task managers. The Bank could, however, have insisted
more on putting in place a monitoring and evaluation system to assess project impact. The
Bank promptly treated withdrawal applications and replenished the Special Accounts.
Concern was expressed by the Borrower at delays in disbursements and replenishments.
This was, however, not due to any slackness on the part of IDA but due to delays in
preparation and submission of the Statements of Accounts (SOEs) by the Borrower.



9
Borrower Performance
25.   Borrower performance was generally satisfactory. Procurement was accomplished
100 percent and all duties and taxes were paid. Policy reforms by the Government resulted
in liberalizing the grain trade. However, counterpart funding was short of requirements
and there were delays in releasing the allocated funds (para 19). There is an amount of
approximately Birr 2.27 million advanced to the Region by MOA/FD for which documents
have not yet been submitted by the Region. Out of this amount, approximately Birr
800,000 were advanced to the Borrower from Special Account A in 1990/91 prior to the
devolution of powers to the Region which still remains unaccounted. Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) were not submitted by the Region on time due to insufficient
qualified staff, incomplete records, and the remoteness of Zones and Woredas resulting in
late replenishment of IDA funds which delayed in carrying out some of the project
activities. The only records kept by the RAB are control accounts for advances received
from MOA and released to the Zones. The Region should have imposed time limits for the
Zones and Woredas to submit their accounts so that the Region could submit these to the
MOA on time. On several occasions the accountant of the PIU was compelled to offer
assistance to the MOA/FD for a prolonged period of time which in turn jeopardized the
accountant's work at the duty station. At the request of the Borrower, IDA has granted
additional two months for settling outstanding expenditures incurred before June 30, 1997,
after which the accounts will be closed and any outstanding balance will be canceled.
26.   The Special Account B of AISE was closed on time and AISE has successfully
completed its operation with IDA on June 30, 1995. However, AISE's last audit report for
the year 1994/95 which was to be submitted by January 1996, has not yet been received by
IDA and is expected soon.
27.   The Project has been regular in submitting its audit reports and has followed up on
the legal covenants satisfactorily.
Assessment of Outcome
28.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The two most important
components of the project, i.e., Improved Supply of Inputs by AISE (para 10) which
accounted for more than 80 percent of the project lending, and Extension Services (para
12), amounting to 10 percent of the lending, were both highly satisfactory. There is a
greater awareness among the farmers on the use of fertilizers, pesticides, improved seeds
and farm implements. It was anticipated in the SAR that due to the expected increase in
the use of fertilizer from 125,000 tons in FY88 to 280,000 tons in the year 5 of the project,
assuming an average response of 5 kgs. of cereal to 1 kg. of fertilizer, the project would
generate additional cereal production of 775,000 metric tons (MT) on low side and
1,045,000 MT on the high side. Though data on the direct impact of the project on
production was not collected during the project period, estimates of total production data
provided by the Amhara National Regional State (ANRS) in the project area (Annex 6,
Appendix A) show an annual increase of between 350,000 to 450,000 MT of foodgrain.



10
While this cannot be attributed entirely to the project, the impact of the fertilizer in the
project area would result in an average incremental foodgrain production of about 1.2
million metric tons during the seven years of the project (1989-1995). This is about 20
percent higher than the appraisal estimate. Thus the project did achieve its objective of
increasing the production of foodgrain, productivity and thereby incomes of the farmers.
29.   Availability of credit to the farmers through DBE and CBE (para l1) has
contributed to the satisfactory performance of the project.  Development activities
performed at the grassroots level have made a significant contribution in energizing the
momentum of the peasant sector. The project has also played an important role in
strengthening the institutional capacity which created sufficient grounds to effectively run
similar future projects in the Region. Construction of houses and offices for the
Development Agents (DAs) and increased mobility of SMSs and DAs to farmers have led
to closer contact with farmers contributing to the dissemination of extension services. In
spite of the problems of security and the time spent in adjusting to the restructuring of the
MOA, decentralization and regionalization of the government, the project achieved its
most of its targets.
Future Operations
30.   The operational plans for the period of next three years from  1997 to 1999
submitted by the Government (annex 4 & 5, Appendix A) incorporating most of the project
activities into their nornal program with an anticipated amount of financial allocation for
each activity, i.e., Agricultural Extension, Field Trials, Crop Development, Cooperative
Development, Institutional Strengthening, and Promotion of Rural Technology; reflect a
commitment by the Borrower for continuation of the project activities. Ambasel, a private
company, will now be involved in importing and distributing agricultural inputs, in
addition to the other existing organizations. The Region is trying to provide credit through
the Amhara Rural Credit Services as well as other existing credit institutions. Further,
there are already two agricultural projects, i.e., National Fertilizer Project and National
Seeds Project which have been approved in 1995. The Agriculture Research and Training
Project has already been appraised and expected to be approved soon.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
31.   The following are the major findings and key lessons learned:
(a) While it is recognized that decentralization promotes project ownership and
effective management, sufficient capacity building should precede the transfer of project
activities.
(b) Having a strong, well-staffed and motivated Coordination Unit with authority
within the regional administration is essential for effective monitoring and implementation
of project activities.



11
(c) Preference of providing training to top cadres instead of those responsible for
project implementation at the lower levels does not provide the necessary know-how and
stability during the life of the project.
(d) The extension of the project by one year at a time, instead of two years at a
stretch, created uncertainties which affected project implementation, including advance
planning, procurement turn-around time, and timely replenishment of IDA funds.
(e) Training of financial and procurement management staff at all levels is critical
to the success and smooth operation of the project.
(f) Strengthening of the rural savings and credit institutions is essential for
sustainability of providing credits to the farmers to buy the required inputs in time,
resulting in increase in production and productivity.
(g) Setting up of appropriate procedures for submitting disbursement and
reimbursement requests from Woredas to the Region and Region to the Central level would
facilitate timely submission of SOEs to IDA for obtaining replenishment of the Special
Account.
(h) Rural Technology Promotion Centers (RTPCs) established under the project are
well equipped and staffed. For their sustainable growth, contact with the farmers through
the SCs alone is not enough. They should be encouraged to establish direct contact with
the farmers to promote their products.
(i) Cost recovery schemes should be an integral part of the FTSSs, and private
sector should be encouraged to provide similar services.
() The only solar pump established under the project is functioning well. It
generates electricity to provide water to about 400 households and their cattle from the
groundwell. The revenue generated from the nominal charges for usage of water by each
household makes this activity self-sustainable. Such investments should be encouraged by
the Government for the direct and indirect benefits derived by the farmers.
(k) Policy reforms, such as liberalizing grain marketing and removing restrictions
on inter-regional grain trade allowing farmers to sell their surplus grain on the open market
stimulated farmers to produce more. Such initiatives should be encouraged by the Bank.,



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial     Negligible   Notapplicable
Macro Policies                 03 O                        O              O
Sector Policies                0             0             O              O
Financial Objectives           O             0 1           O        
Institutional Development      0             O             Ol
Physical Objectives            0             0             Ol             O
Poverty Reduction              0             0             0l             0
Gender Issues                  O      0             0                     0
Other Social Objectives        0             O                            0
Environmental Objectives       O             O             0              a
Public Sector Management       E             0             O              0
Private Sector                 0             E             E              E
Development
Other (specify)                O              l            O              O
B. Pr1ectSustainability          Likely             Unlikely              Uncetain
(1)  '(1)                                  (1) 
C. Bank Performance              Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactoyr            Deficiet
Identification                O                    e                      E
Preparation Assistance        0                    0                      Ol
Appraisal                     E                    03 O
Supervision                   O                    0                      El



13
Highly
D. Boffower Performance               satisfactory   Satisfactoyr   Deficien
(1)          (/)          (V/)
Preparation                            O            EO
Implementation                         O            E
Covenant Compliance                                  l           O
Operation (if applicable)              a            0            0
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome        satisfuactoSatisfacory  Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfator
-~~~~                                 ~    ~~~~~~ (/  (/   (/              /



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title        Purpose                  Approval   Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Agricultural Minimum      Increase crop production by  1973    Completed
Package                  supplying modem inputs
2.  Drought Rehabilitation    Rehabilitation              1974
3.  Revised Amibara Irrigation   Develop irrigation for   1977
increased food crop prod.
4.  Grain Storage & Marketing  Improve storage of food     1978
crops and marketing
5.  MPP II                   Increase crop production by  1981
supply of modem inputs
6.  Agricultural Research     Support to Agric. Research  1985
7.  Drought Recovery Program   Rehabilitation             1985
8.  Livestock IV             Increase livestock develop-  1987          "
ment by improving animal
health & feed production.
9.  Small-Scale Irrig. & Consv.  Develop irrigation and   1987          "
increase food production.
10. Emergency Recovery &      Rehabilitation of post socia-  1992       "
Reconstruction Program  list economy including
agriculture
Following Operations
2.  National Fertilizer Sector   Increase crop production  1995      On going
Development              through fertilizer supply
3.  National Seed Systems     Increase crop production     1995
Development              through seed prod. & supply
4.  Social Rehabilitation Fund   Rural Infrastructure, incl.  1996      "
small-scale irrigation



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual /
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification                     -            Sept. 1982
Preparation                January 1983         June 1983
Appraisal                  February 1985        May 1986
Feb. 1988 (follow-up)
June 1988 (completion
of Appraisal)
Negotiations               September 1988       September 1988
Board presentation         October 1988         October 18, 1988
Signing                    November 1988        December 6, 1988
Effectiveness              January 1989         April 14, 1989
Project completion         June 30, 1995        June 30, 1997
Loan closing               June 30, 1995        June 30, 1997



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal  FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96  FY97  FY98
Year
Appraisal     0.0  29.30  19.00   20.00    9.00    4.00    3.7
estimate
Cumulative    0.0  29.30  48.30   68.30   77.30   81.30   85.00
Actual (a)    2.76  21.82  21.45   29.01    5.45    1.46    0.22    0.10   0.18
Curnulative   2.76  24.58  46.03   75.04   80.49   81.95   82.17   82.27  82.45
Actual as      0     84     95    110    104    101        97      97     97
% of
estimate
Date of final disbursement: (b)
(a) Credit was extended beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1995 by two years.
(b) The above data is as of October 31, 1997. The final date of disbursement has been
extended to December 31, 1997.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                   Estimated/Planned                      Actual
1. Institutional Strengthening
(i) Training
(a) Local Training           Provide short and long term training   25 staff trained in M&E and 16 in
for the staff of MOA.            operating, printing, and editing.
(b) Overseas Training        Provide short term overseas training   2 staff of MOA attended on M&E
for staff of MOA and AISE.       workshop in Nairobi and 6 staff of
AISE on MIS and fertilizer.
(c) Agric. Extension Training  Strengthen the capacity of the  Six staff-months of TA was fnanced.
extension section of the MOA at HQ.
(ii) Technical Assistance      MOA to utilize 72 staff-months of    34 staff-months used by Proj. Coord.
short and long term consultancies.    M&E Dept.(PCMED) of MOA.
(iii) Publication of Extension  Publish about 60 percent of the  Procurement of the printing equip-
Materials                      extension materials required by the    ment completed and relevant training
MOA departments.                 and technical assistance provided.
2. North-Western Zone
(a) Agricultural Extension
(i) Each DA/Farm family ratio   I to 1,300                   1 to 900 - 1,000
(ii) DA residence/office    Construct 419 residences and offices.  416 residences/offices constructed.
(iii) Local training (PD)   Organize training totaling 28,794  13,095 PD was conducted.
PD.
(iv) Workshops (No)         Organize 1,188 workshops.        960 workshops organized.
(v) Technical assistance (MM)  Appoint 36 man months of TA.  6 PM were used.
(vi) Field visits (PD)      Organize 1,541,570 field visits.  A total of 299,219 were organized.
(vii) Res./Extension Liaison  Organize 8 RELC meetings.      8 meetings were held.
Committee (RELC) Meetings (No)



18
Table 5: Continued
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                        Estimated                           Actual
(b) Rural Women in Development
(i) Micro Projects (Unit)   Identify and implement 8 micro     A total of 7 micro-projects identified
projects.                         and implemented.
(ii) Local training          69,095 PD of training in skills   Provided 16,888 PD of training.
development.
(iii) In-service training (No)  Provide 2,108 in-service training .  457 in-service training provided.
(iv) Overseas training (No)  N/S                               2 were trained.
(v) Workshops (No)           Organize 4,904 workshops.         892 workshops were organized.
(c) Field Trials and Crop Develop.
(i) Field trials (No)       Conduct 1,139 field trials.        807 field trials were conducted.
(ii) Crop Development       Construct 3 stores.                3 stores were constructed.
(d) Rural Technology Promotion    Develop and promote small-scale  10 FTSSs were established and
(RTP)                          agricultural implements and        existing two RTP Centers were
machinery, establish 15 FTSSs.    provided with equipment.
(e) Cooperative Development    Provide training to Service Coop.(SC)  A comprehensive national training
members, i.e., Accountants/Auditors/  program was developed and
and Book/Store Keepers, etc..     implemented by the MOA.
3. lmproved Input Supply
(a) Fertilizer (DAP & Urea)  242,000 MT of fertilizers to be   242,000 MT of fertilizers were
financed by IDA over five years.  procured and distributed.
(b) Hand Sprayers            Import 5,000 hand sprayers including   3,250 hand sprayers were imported
equipment and spare parts.        and distributed.
4. Production Credit           Funds provided under the proposed  Br. 136 million was provided as
IDA Credit for fertilizer purchases  production credit.
(Birr 143.5 million) would be on-lent
for production credit.



19
Table 5: Continued                              ____   __...-
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                        Estimated                           Actual
I1. Modified Indicators
Regional Agric. Bureau (RABW
1. Re-establishment of the Project   Appoint a Project Coordinator, an  Staff appointed, except monitoring
Implementation Unit (PIU)      accountant, a monitoring and       specialist due to unavailability of
evaluation specialist, and a secretary.   qualified local personnel.
2. Institutional strengthening
(a) local training (No.)     Organize local training for 143 staff.   52 staff trained,
(b) overseas training (No.)  Organize overseas training for 56 staff  37 staff trained.
(c) Technical assistance     Provide 5 staffweeks of TA.        Not implemented.
3. Agricultural Extension (No.)
(a) DA residence/office      Construct 681 residences and offices.  751 residences & offices constructed
(b) overseas training SMSs   Organize overseas training for 6   Not implemented.
SMSs.
(c) On fann demonstration                                       2,206 on-farn demos conducted.
Conduct 4,412 on-farm demos.
(d) Farmer field days(PD)                                       11,751 farmer field days conducted.
Conduct 45,750 PD of field days
(e) Workshops(no)                                               874 workshops organized.
Organize 709 workshops.
4. Rural Technology Promotion
(a) FTSSs (No)               Establish 5 FTSSs.                 5 FTSSs established.
(b) Biogas (Unit)            Install 9 biogas plants.           5 biogas plants installed.
(c) Solar pumps (Unit)       Install 2 solar pumps.             I solar pump installed.
(d) Training (No)            Conduct training for 7,340 farmers,    A total of 2,259 farmers, DAs and
DAs and Home Agents (HAs).        HAs trained.



20
Table 5: Continued
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                        Estimated                          Actual
5. Cooperative Development     Provide training to Service Coop.(SC)  A comprehensive regional training
members, i.e., Accountants/Auditors/   program was developed and
and Book/Store Keepers, etc..    implemented by the RAB.
6. Field Trials and Crop
Development
(a) Field trials (No)        Conduct 116 field trails.         106 field trails conducted.
(b) Crop Development Nurseries  Establish and operate 180 nurseries.    162 nurseries established.
(c) Farmer Field Days (PD)   Organize 6,666 farmer field days.  3,131 farmer field days organized.
(d) Farmers training (PD)    Provide 18,462 PD of training.    660 PD training was provided.
(e) Staff training (PD)      Provide 3,642 PD of training.     330 PD staff training was provided.
7. Rural Women in Development
Identify and implement 259 micro-    A total of 47 micro-projects
(a) Micro Projects (units)   projects.                         identified and implemented.
(b) Local training (PD)      68,900 PD in skills development.  10,975 PD of training was provided.
(c) Workshops (no.)          Organize 11 regional and zonal    Not implemented.
workshops to upgrade women's skill.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific key indicators for project operation were provided in the SAR.



21
Table 7: Studies
Purpose as Defined at
Study        Appraisal/Redefined         Status      Impact of Study
1. Grain Marketing    Review of agricultural    Completed in    Increase in farmgate
and Pricing Issues  prices and evaluate     1988 with PPF   prices and removal of
implementation of grain  funds.       restrictions on inter-
marketing and price                    regional grain trade
reforms                                allowing farmers and
traders to sell their
surplus grain in the open
market.
2.. Electronic Data    Review financial and  Completed with  Due to the period of civil
Processing (EDP)    accounting procedures    PPF funds.    strife and later
Systems             and Management                         restructuring and
Information System and                 regionalization activities,
redesign/establish EDP                 impact is unknown
system
3. Printing and     Review MOA's capacity  Completed in    Printing equipment
Editorial Services    to print and edit agricul-  March 1990.    procured and is being
(EDP)               tural extension and other              installed. Provided
material                              training to 16 local staff.
4. Bure-Silala Soil    Prepare outline of  Service Coop.   Nurseries for multi-
Conservation and    physical investment and   Area Develop-   purpose seedlings and
Watershed           land utilization and   ment Plan and   improved grasses were
Management          evaluate impact on crop/  proposal     established, and physical
livestock production and  prepared by NW   and vegetative conserva-
family incomes         Zonal staff.    tion measures were
implemented.



22
Table 7: Studies (continued)
Purpose as Defined at
Study         Appraisal/Redefined         Status      Impact of Study
5. Fertilizer Sub-   Review feasibility of   Completed in    National Fertilizer
Sector Study.        differential fertilizer  1992.          Industry Agency (NFIA)
pricing, price stabiliza-               was established which
tion, procurement,                      currently assesses
storage, distribution,                  fertilizer demand for the
transportation and use of               country and establishes
technologies for efficient              regulations.
use of fertilizer.
6. Rural Technology   Review potential for   Various studies  Improved technological
Promotion and        improving productivity   and reviews    packages were identified,
Adaptive Research    of land, labor and oxen    were conducted  tested by IAR and
by use of improved farm   by IAR.       utilized by farmers.
implements. Also
review available
scientific and trial
evidences/ activities of
AIR.



23
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                    (US$M)(a)
Local' Foreign           Local   Foreign
Item            Costs   Costs   Total   Costs    Costs       Total
Management of Sectoral    4.6      3.5     8.2      1.1       2.9       4.0
Services
Technical Improvements    1.4     2.9      4.3     0.3       1.5       1.8
Delivery of Services in the    9.0  3.2    12.2     2.6      5.3        7.9
Northwestern Zone
Improved Supply of Inputs  18.7    74.7    93.4     1.3      72.7      74.0
Price Studies and Policy  0.3      0.3      0.6     0.03      0.05      0.08
Institute
Total                    34.0    84.6    118.6    5.4        82.4      87.8
Note: (a) Actual as at October 31, 1997.



24
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                   (US$M)(a)
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
Source          Costs   Costs    Total   Costs    Costs    Total
IDA                      0.4    84.6      85.0      0.0     82.4    82.4 (c)
Government               33.6     0.0     33.6      5.4      0.0      5.4 (b)
Total                    34.0    84.6    118.6    5.4       82.4   87.8
Note: (a) Actual as at October 31, 1997.
(b) Actual local funding of Birr 25.5 million is converted to US$ 5.4 million at the
annual average exchange rates of the respective years: 1989/92 - B 2.07, 1993 -
B 4.09, 1994 B 5.10, 1995 - B 6.25, 1996 - Birr 6.32, and 1997 - B 6.51.
(c) Because of the exchange rate appreciation of SDR to the dollar, the appraisal
equivalent estimate of IDA contribution was $89.9 million.



25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefit
(In US$ '000 Constant 1997 Prices)
Investment                                 O&M               Benefits             Net Benefits
Year                      Fertilizer 1)                 Other                 Total           3)               Total                  Total
Within  Outside    Total               2)             Within     All              Within   Outside    All    Within      All
1989               14,215    1,846    16,062     470                      14,686   16,532     0       28,462    9,962    38,423   13,776   21,891
1990               7,269    1,846    9,115       7,555                    14,824   16,670     0       24,192    8,538    32,731    9,368    16.060
1991               23,423    1,846    25,269     273                     23,696   25,542      0       24,192    8,538    32,731   496      7,189
1992               23,585    3,692    27,277     3,642                   27,227   30,919      0       38,423   14,231   52,654   11,196   21,735
1993                 0        0         0        2,825                    2,825    2,825      0       38,423   14,231   52,654   35,598   49,829
1994                 0        0         0        886                       886      886       0       51,231   18,500   69,731   50,345   68,845
1995                 0        0         0        638                       638      638       0       45,538   17,077   62,615   44,901   61,978
1996                 0        0         0        1,132                    1,132    1,132      0         0        0        0      (1,132)   -1,132
1997                 0        0         0        1,002                    1,002    1,002      0         0        0        0      (1,002)   -1,002
Economic Rate of Return:
- Within Project Area                      not
relevant
- All                                      not
relevant
Net Present Value:
- Within Project Area    (12%)                92,000 US$ '000
- All                   (12%)                 137,000 US$ '000
Benefit Cost Ratio:
- Within Project Area    (12%)                  2.48
-All                     (12%)                   3.05
Note:   1) based on quantities imported as provided by AISE
2) based on disbursements by IDA and GOE, excluding values attributed to fertilizer mentioned under 1)
3) included under investment and discontinued after project closed.



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-            Covenant  Present  Fulflllment Fulf0llment
ment    Section   Type       Status   Date       Date        Description of Covenant                    Comments
Credit  302 (a)   I          C                               Without any limitation or restriction upon any  AISCO and AIDB complied with
1956                                                         of its other obligations, the Borrower shall    the agreement and successfully
cause AIDB and AISCO to perform in accor-  completed their role on June 30,
dance with the provisions of project agree-    1995.
ment and shall take, or cause to be taken, all
actions, including provision of funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources necessary
or appropriate to enable AIDB and AISCO
perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
3.06     3          C                               The Borrower shall take all measures neces-   Requirement met out of funding
sary to ensure availability of sufficient funds   from other donors to the
to meet the foreign exchange requirements to   Government.
cover the cost of the availability of fertilizer
which would not be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit.
3.07    5          C                                Borrower shall, no later than December 31,    Complied with.
establish a Technical Assistance Coordination
Committee under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association, with Head of the
PCMU as chairman. Other members shall
include representatives from MOA, AISCO
and other departments selected in consultation
with the Association.



27
Table 10: Continued
Original    Revised
Agree-           Covenant  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment    Section  Type       Status   Date        Date       Description of Covenant                   Comments
4.01     1         CD                              Borrower to have its records, accounts and  Complied with after delay. The
(b)                                                financial statements for each fiscal year  last audit report to be submitted
audited by independent auditor acceptable to  is not yet due.
the Association and furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but not later
than six months after end of fiscal year.
4.01     1         C        -           -          Ensure that Special Accounts are included in   Complied with.
(c)                                                the annual audit referred to in (b) of this
section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by the auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during the fiscal year together with
procedures and internal controls can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Sch. 5-  5         C                               Borrower to maintain during the project a  Complied with.
A (I)                                              PCC with TOR and membership satisfactory
to the Association.
Sch. 5-  5         C                               Each department/agency involved in the     Complied with.
A (2)                                              project to prepare work plan and furnish
consolidated action plan to Association by
June 30th.



28
Table 10: Continued
Original    Revised
Agree-           Covenan  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment    Section   t       Status   Date       Date       Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type
Sch. 5-  5        CP                             Borrower and IDA exchange views based on   Rural technology complied with.
\   A (6) &                                      study of rural technology, and Bure-Silala  Bure-Silala not relevant as it
(7)                                              conservation and watershed mgmt and     started to be implemented with
prepare action plans                    irrigation component of ESRDF
project.
Sch. 5-  5        C                              During first two years of implementation,  Complied with.
A (8)                                            Borrower to carry out semi-annual implemen-
tation review; in successive years only annual
implementation review whereby Borrower
shall cause AISCO and AIDB to prepare brief
reports on their contribution to the project.
PCC shall not later than one month before
completing such review contact the Associa-
tion for comments on the consolidated report.
Sch. 5-   5       CP                             Borrower shall cause the National Research    Complied with partially.
B                                                Liaison Committee to review existing
available information on fertilizer trials; cause
the Zonal Extension Liaison Committee to
carry out a study to determine the level of
existing technology available for main crops
in the North Western Zone.



29
Table 10: Continued
Original      Revised
Agree-                 Covenan   Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment       Section    t             Status    Date            Date            Description of Covenant                               Comments
Type
Sch.  5-   5            C                                         Borrower to implement Support Services                Complied with.
C                                                                 Component with particular emphasis on ex-
tension and auditing of service cooperatives.
Sch.  5-   5            C                                         Borrower to review AISCO's performance in    Complied with.
D                                                                 the timely supply of fertilizer.
Sch.  5-   2            NC                                        Price policy analysis of the Agriculture              Not relevant anymore due to
E                                                                 Marketing Corporation (AMC)                            Government's price and market
policy reforms.
AISCO       I           CP                                        AISCO have its records, accounts and                   Special Account closed to the
4.01 (a)                                                          financial statements for each fiscal year              satisfaction of IDA. All audit
audited by independent auditor acceptable to    reports submitted except the last
the Association and furnish to the                    one for the year 94/95 which is to
Association as soon as available, but not later   be submitted shortly.
than six months after end of fiscal year.
Covenant types:                                                                                                                        Present Status;
1. =    Accounts/audits                                       8. =    Indigenous people                                                C   =    covenant complied with
2. =     Finan. performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. =    Monitoring, review, and reporting                           CP =    complied with partially
3. =     Flow and utilization of project funds                 10. =    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9           CD =    complied with after delay
4. =     Counterpart funding                                   11. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC =    not complied with
5. =    Management aspects of the project or executing agency           12. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6. =     Environmental covenants                               13. =    Other
7. =     Involuntary resettlement



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                        Actual
Project Cycle                        Staffweeks        US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal                289.8            596.3
Appraisal                               186.9            348.9
Negotiations through Board approval      10.3             25.6
Supervision                            192.5             506.9
Completion                               4.2              15.4
Total                                  683.7            1493.1



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
ETH: PADEP 1
Number   Days  Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of             Month/         of       in    Staff Skills  Implem-  Develop-
Project Cycle          Year       Persons   Field  Represented  entation   ment                Types of
Status    Objectives           Problems
Through Appraisal  09/82 - 02/88    41      286      ab,c,d   l
Appraisal through   04/88 - 05/88    9       30      a.b.c.d                                                      l
Board Approval                                                                                                    l
Board through      11/88            2        26        ac                                                         l
effectiveness
Supervision 1      10-11/89         8        25     ab,c,d,e       I          1      Grain pricing and marketing
reforms
Supervision 2     06-07/90          5        21      b.c.d,f       2          2      Admin. & lack of local funds.
Supervision 3     01/92             3        12        c           2         2       Restart project activities after
the end of civil strife.
Supervision 4     02-03/92          1        16        a           -          -      Fertilizer proc. & disbursmnt.
Supervision 5     03/94             2        4        c,e          U         U       Poor performance of all
I____ _____ ____  _____ __________ ____ components except inputs.
Supervision 6     04/95             5        27      b,c,d,g       U         U       Inadequate regionally focused
activities.
Supervision 7     06/95              1       3         c                             Special Accounts, IDA funds.
Supervision 8     12/95             2        16        c,e         S          S      PIU & recruitmnent M&E Splst.
Supervision 9     04/96             4        15       b.c,e        S          S      Extension of closing date.
Supervision 10    10/96             2        14        c           S          S      Procurement, PIU, financial.
Supervision 9     05/97           1          4         c                             Procurement., Borrower's ICR.
Completion         10/97            4        17        c,e        _          =       Evaluation for ICR preparation.
Key to Staff Skill
a = Agriculturist/Agronomist             e = Operations/Res. Analyst
b = Financial Analyst                    f = Soil & Consv. Spslt.
c = Economist                            g = Women in Development
d = Extension Specialist.
Performance Rating:      I = Highly Satisfactory   2 & S =  Satisfactory    3 & U =  Unsatisfactory






Appendix A
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1
(Credit 1956-ET)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AIDE MEMOTIRE
1.    A World Bank mission was conducted from October 6 to 23, 1997 for the preparation
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Peasant Agricultural Development
Project 1 (PADEP 1). The Mission was led by Ms. Bhagwanti Khushalani (Agrculture
Operations, AFTA2) and comprised of Messrs. Lorenzo Marchesini (Ex-Task Manager,
PADEP I), Berhane Manna (Operations Officer, AFMET), and Yoseph Woldemichael
(Consultant). Assistance was provided to the mission by Ato Gebremedhin Belay, Head of
the Planning and Programning Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOAtPPD) and
his staff comprising of Messrs. Sirak Alemu (Head, PF&E Division), Zena Estifanos (Soil
Studies Expert) who also accompanied the mission for the field visits, Tesfaye Tilahun
(Agricultural Economist) and Mulu HIMarian from the Finance Department. The mission
had discussions with the staff of Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise (AISE, previously
known as AISCO), National Development Bank of Ethiopia (DBE, previously known as
AIDB), as well as with Dr. Belay Demissie, Head of Amhara National Regional Agriculture
Bureau (ANRAB: Region 3) and his staff in Bahir Dar. In addition to visits to some of the
project sites, the mission had discussions with a number of clients and project beneficiaries
to elicit their views about the implementation of the project. A wrap-up meeting held in
Addis Ababa on October 22, 1997, chaired by Ato Gebermedhin Belay, Head, MOA/PPD,
and attended by the staff of MOA, MEDAC and Region 3 (see Annex 1), discussed the
observations of the mission. Their comments have been incorporated, as appropriate, in this
aide-memoire. The mission is grateful for the cooperation, courtesies and assistance
extended to it by the management and staff of the MOA/PPD, AISE and the Region and also
for providing their draft Implementation Completion Reports.
2.    This aide-memoire, which is subject to subsequent review and confirmation by the
Bank management, summarizes the mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements
reached with the Borrower and the follow-up actions required under the ICR process. It also
assesses the objectives of the project and their achievements, identifies major factors that
affected project implementation, reviews the performance of the Bank and the Borrower, the
sustainability of the Project and finally summarizes the key lessons learned.
Project Background
3.    The origin of PADEP dates back to 1982 when IDA and the Govemment of Ethiopia
(GOE) entered into a long and intensive policy dialogue in order to take actions and policy
measures to enable the peasant sector to achieve major increases in production and
productivity. This dialogue was supported by a number of studies financed under the then
ongoing projects (MPP I & MPP II). Following an in-depth internal study of the grain
marketing and pricing issues, the Government announced, effective January 1, 1988, policv



2
changes which removed restriction on inter-regional grain trade and allowed farmers and
traders to sell their surplus grain either to merchants or on the open market after fulfilling
their quotas. Under this scenario, PADEP 1 was appraised and approved in October 1988
and became effective on April 14, 1989. The Project duration was initially for a period of
seven years, however it was later extended for two more years. The Project closed on June
30, 1997. The proposed project executing agencies were MOA, AISE and DBE. After the
decentralization of the administrative structure in 1993, the implementation of the project
was transferred to the Regional Agricultural Bureau of the Amhara National Regional State
(ANRS) in March 1993. The project cost was estimated at US$118.6 million, with the IDA
credit amounting to US$85.0 million (SDR 66.0 million). The balance (equivalent to US$
33.6 million) was to be provided by the Government. The project funds were reallocated
twice, once following the civil strife after the period 1990-91, and the second time in 1995
when the project was extended for a period of two years from July 1, 1995 to June 30, 1997.
The project area covered the North-Western Agricultural Zone encompassing Gojam and
Gonder regions totaling to about 40 Woredas in five years. As a result of the re-organization
of the administrative structure in 1992, thirty-nine of the project Woredas fell within the five
administrative zones (North and South Gonder, East and West Gojam and Awi) in Region 3
now part of the Amhara National Regional State (ANRS). Due to the redefining of the
Woreda boundaries again in 1995, the number of Woredas were increased to fifty-two.
Project Objectives and Components
4.    The primary objective of the Project was to increase the foodgrain production,
productivity, and income of the peasant sector. The strategy for achieving these goals was
to: (a) improve efficiency in the management and delivery of agricultural services; (b)
improve the technology available to farmers; (c) support further improvements in the
incentive framework for producers while minimizing any adverse impacts on consumers.
5.    The Project included the following components:
(a) Strengthening of the MOA's management of sectoral services:
(i) project coordination, monitoring and evaluation,
(ii) financial control,
(iii) production of extension materials, and
(iv) extension and cooperative development;
(b) Expansion of the sectoral capacity to test technological improvement:
(i) national field trials, and
(ii) rral technology promotion;
(c) Support for the delivery of services in the Northwestern Zone:
(i) extension services,
(ii) cooperative development, and
(iii) soil conservation and watershed management;



3
(d) Improved input supply:
(i) increased farm inputs,
(ii) improved delivery by AISCO (now AISE), and
(iii) better credit support from the AIDB (now DBE); and
(e) Support for continuous pricing policy analysis and grain reserve management.
Above seventy percent of project financing was allocated to the purchase of fertilizer and the
rest to strengthening agricultural support services.
6.    After the civil strife was over in 1990-91, the project activities were revised in the last
quarter of 1992 to give emphasis to economic recovery, reconstruction and re-orientation
towards a market-oriented system. These included:
(i) strengthening field support for the distribution and application of fertilizer
which was critical to a rapid recovery in agricultural production;
(ii) short-term training in various areas related to supporting implementation of the
new economic policy area; and
(iii) financing of small scale irrigation and water conservation under the Bure
Watershed Pilot.
7.    These changes were still within the overall project objective of increasing
agricultural production and productivity. In order to provide resources to support these
changes, some of the project activities were eliminated either because they were no longer
relevant to the changed project environment or their relative importance had declined. These
activities included:
(i) construction of six fertilizer stores for the AISE;
(ii) support to Price Studies & Policy Institute (PSPI) which had become obsolete
due to liberalization of trade in foodgrains and agricultural produce; and
(iii) technical assistance for project coordination and agricultural information
systems.
8.    The Project components were revised in 1995 when the project was extended for two
years from July 1995 to June 1997. The proposed changes were consistent with the
Government's policy on regionalization and decentralization and contained a large number
of activities with particular emphasis on:
(i) capacity building of the Regional Agricultural Bureau (RAB) administration,
both in terms of human resource development and institutional strengthening;
(ii) strengthening of the regional research and improvement of the research/
extension linkage; and
(iii) grassroots activities in the areas of women in development, field trials and crop
development, rural technology promotion, extension and the development of
the cooperative sector.



4
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.   In order to get a clearer picture of achievements of project objectives, the total project
period of nine years has been divided into two, one before the extension of the project
(period 1) and the other after the extension (period 2). The achievements during these two
periods have been summarized in Annexes 2 and 3 respectively. Period 1 comprising of
seven years was marred by the civil strife during 1990-1991. During these years the project
activities were limited to procurement of fertilizer, vehicles, and office equipment. The
delivery of services in the Northwestern Zone stalled and development objectives at the
grassroots level could not be met. Further, project implementation suffered during 1993-94
following the restructuring, down-sizing of the MOA and regionalization process in the
country resulting in staff turnover and lack of qualified staff at the regional/zonal levels
under the new administrative structure. In spite of these constraints, the achievements (see
Annex 2), were more than 50 percent of the target, and in some instances even 100 percent.
The Agricultural Extension, Rural Technology Promotion, Field Trials, Cooperative
Development and Agricultural Input Supplies performed quite well. ASIE, whose role
finished in 1995, achieved 100 percent of the target for supply of fertilizer and 65 percent of
the target for delivery of farm equipment.
10.   Period 2, which is the extension period of the project for two years, was marked with
ups and downs mainly because of the lack of institutional capacity at the regional level.
However, it is encouraging to note that the project achieved most of its targets in a
satisfactory manner (see Annex 3). Some of the achievements even exceeded the targets, as
in the case of building of residences and offices for the Development Agents, and the number
of workshops held under extension training. If we consider the performance in Period 2 in
absolute numbers, the project performed even better than Period 1. The Rural Technology
Promotion which included establishment of Farmer Technical Service Stations (FTSSs),
Field Trials and Crop Development components performed exceptionally well. The
components which performed poorly were farmers and fieldstaff training, and Rural Women
in Development. The latter could be attributed to shortage of qualified staff and
restructuring. The achievement of microprojects during this period was only 11 percent and
the local training was only 20 percent. None of the targeted workshops were held. Their
activities were merged with the Agricultural Extension Department in 1997.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
11.   Some of the positive factors of project implementation include:
(i) Sufficient fertilizer was imported and made available to the farmers at a time
when Ethiopia was in financial difficulties during 1989-91 due to sharp decline of foreign
exchange reserves and overall budget deficit. This was done by providing financial
resources to AISE and strengthening its capacity for setting up a cost effective and timely
input supply and distribution system. This contributed to the country's production,
especially the grain supply and farners' income; and



5
(ii) Institutional strengthening within MOA and at Regional level have put in
place a framework which will help in sustaining project activities.
12.   The major factors that adversely affected the Project during the two Periods were:
(i) Security situation related to the civil strife during 1990-91 and restructuring of
MOA which led to the suspension of all grassroot project activities, except procurement
of fertilizer, vehicles, office equipment;
(ii) Decentralization and regionalization process in the country which hampered
field activities during the 1993-94 transition period;
(iii) Disruption in the project activities due to the.preoccupation of the newly
established Region 3 with matters relating to restructuring and re-organization during
1994-95; and
(iv) Apart from the external constraints, some of the internal factors affecting the
project implementation were:
(a) insufficient counterpart funding amounting to US$5.4 million, which is about
16 percent of the amount (US$33.6 million) committed at appraisal;
(b) delays in procurement due to Region not being too familiar with the
procedures, especially for local shopping. This was also due to some internal regional
government procedures, e.g., requirement of three bidders, getting approval for purchases
of more than Birr 50,000, which should not have been the case (Period 2);
(c) lack of training at the lower level personnel who actually perform the work,
especially in the areas of procurement and finance;
(d) delay in replenishment of IDA funds due to delayed submission of the SOEs,
many of which are still pending, resulting in an outstanding amount of more than Birr 3
million;
(e) delay in release of matching funds during the first quarter of the year,
particularly for recurrent expenditures, from the Government due to the regulation that if
the money allocated could not be used during the year, it will have to be re-deposited in
the government account and re-requested in the next year. This contributed to delay in
many of the project activities (Period 1);
(f) high turn-over of the staff resulting in losing some of the well-trained
personnel both at the MOA and regional levels;
(g) lack of qualified and skilled project staff available locally; one of the reasons
could be unattractive salaries and benefits;



6
(h) dissolution of the Project Coordination Office and non-appointment of a full-
time PIU Coordinator after it was re-established during the extension period; and
(i) weak research and extension linkages (Period 1).
Project Outcome and Sustainability
13.   Considering the achievements summarized in Annexes 2 and 3, the overall
outcome of the project is satisfactory. The objectives of increasing the foodgrain
production, productivity and income of the peasant sector have been achieved due to
adequate and timely supply of improved agricultural inputs (fertilizer, pesticides and
sprayers), in addition to other factors. The farmers are now knowledgeable and
experienced in the use of fertilizers. Availability of credit on easy terms to the farmers
through DBE and CBE is another factor contributing to the achievement of these
objectives and the sustainability of the project. In spite of the problems of security during
1990-91, and the time spent in adjusting to the restructuring of the MOA, decentralization
and regionalization of the government, the project achieved its target in most of the
important components.
14.   The framework set up by strengthening the institutional support at MOA, RAB,
AISE and NDB has built in considerable capacity to carry on the activities started by the
project. Further, the commitment of the Government in continued supply of adequate
funds is another major factor for the sustainability of the project. This is also evident
from the operational plans for the next three years (Annexes 4 & 5) incorporating most of
the project activities into their normal program. Construction of houses and offices for
the Development Agents (DAs) will establish them in closer contact with the farmers.
Bank and Borrower Performance
15.   Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation has been rated
satisfactory. Supervision was fairly regular, except during the periods of unrest and
restructuring. The Bank promptly treated withdrawal applications and replenished the
Special Accounts. Concem was expressed at delays in disbursements and replenish-
ment. This was, however, not due to any slackness on the part of IDA but due to delays
in preparation and submission of the Statements of Accounts (SOEs) by the Borrower.
The Bank granted extension of the project beyond the closing date of June 30, 1995,
initially for a period of one year, and upon satisfactory performance for the second year,
to enable the implementation of the outstanding programs.
16.   Borrower performance was generally satisfactory. Counterpart funding was short
of requirements and there were delays in releasing the allocated funds. Statements of
Accounts (SOEs) were not submitted in time resulting in late replenishment of IDA
funds. This was mainly due to the fact that the Region did not submit their accounts in
time and many of the outstanding balances were not cleared. There is an amount of
approximately Birr 3 million advanced to the Region by MOA/FD for which accounts
have not yet been submitted by the Region. This is because the Region does not have



7
sufficient qualified staff to handle these accounts, resulting in incomplete records. The
only records kept by the RAB are control accounts for advances received from MOA and
released to the Zones. It was also noticed by the ICR mission that there are no time limits
imposed by the Region for the Zones and Woredas to submit their accounts, hence these
are not received on time by the Region to be passed on to the MOA. On several occasions
the accountant of the PIU was compelled to offer assistance to the MOA/FD for a
prolonged period of time which in turn jeopardized the accountant's work at the duty
station. No agreement has yet been reached on an unaccounted balance of approximately
Birr 800,000 relating to the advances made from the Special Account A by the Borrower
to the Project prior to the devolution of powers to the Region. The mission pointed out
that since the project closed on June 30, 1997, and that IDA allows an additional four
months to settle any outstanding balance for the expenses incurred before the closing date
of the project, which incidentally is October 31, 1997, the project has very little time to
send their requests, after which the IDA accounts will be closed and any outstanding
balance will be canceled. The Borrower requested that the period for settlement of
outstanding expenses be extended by about two months. To this effect, the mission
informed the Borrower that an official letter be sent before October 31, 1997 to enable
them to discuss the matter with the IDA management.
17.   The Special Account B of AISE was closed to the complete satisfaction of IDA
and, as stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement, they have successfully
completed their operation with IDA on June 30, 1995. However, AISE's last audit report
for the year 1994/95 which was to be submitted by June 30, 1996, has not yet been
received by IDA, even though AISE has promised, on several occasions, to be sending it
soon. The mission requested and the Borrower agreed to submit this report by December
15, 1997.
18.   The Project has been regular in submitting its audit reports and has followed up
on the legal covenants satisfactorily.
Future Operations
19.   The operational plans for the period of next three years from 1997 to 1999 are
attached to this aide-memoire (Annex 4 & 5). They reflect a commitment to complete the
outstanding tasks and continuation of the project activities after the closing of the project.
These activities include Agricultural Extension, Field Trials, Crop Development,
Cooperative Development, Institutional Strengthening, and Promotion of Rural
Technology.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
20.   The key lessons leamed include:
(a) Although decentralization promotes project ownership and effective
management, capacity building should precede the control of management and transfer of
project activities, which was not perceived.



8
(b) The peasant sector in the project area has benefited from the policy reforms
and liberalization of market economy which removed the impediments such as grain
quotas and allowed farmers to sell their surplus grain in the open market.
(c) Credit availability to the farmers through financial institutions enables them to
buy the required inputs in time for the cropping seasons, resulting in increase in
production and productivity.
(d) The extension of the project in two installments created some difficulties in
the implementation of project, such as advance planning of project activities, procure-
ment, recovery and replenishment of IDA funds resulting in shortage of resources.
(e) The need to provide training to financial and procurement management staff at
all levels is critical to the success and smooth operation of the Project.
(f) Setting up of time limits for submission of expenditure documents by the
Zonal and Woreda offices to the Region should instituted so that these documents could
be submitted on time to the central finance department. This would facilitate the Finance
Department to submit the SOEs to IDA for obtaining replenishment of the Special
Account on time.
(g) Rural Technology Centers established under the project are well equipped and
staffed. However, they could not produce more since the Service Cooperatives were not
able to promote their products sufficiently. Thus establishing direct contact by the Rural
Technology Centers with the farmers themselves would promote their products which
will be essential in providing sustainability to these Centers.
(h) The only solar pump established under the project is functioning well. It
generates electricity to provide water to about 400 households and their cattle from the
groundwell. The revenue generated from the nominal charges for usage of water by each
household makes this activity self-sustainable. However, this pump is operated only for
about two hours in a day. More usage of this energy should be made for other purposes
in the area and the solar pumps should be well-fenced and guarded so that only
authorized personnel could get access to it for its maintenance and operation. Such
investments should be encouraged by the Government for the direct and indirect benefits
derived by the farmers.
(i) Monitoring of projects and assigning a full-time project coordinator are
essential for effective implementation of the project.



9
Next Actions
21.   The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
October 30, 1997         Receive Borrower's Final ICR
October 30, 1997         Send aide-memoire to the Borrower
November 30, 1997        Send final draft ICR to the Borrower
December 15, 1997        Receive Borrower's comments
December 30, 1997        Send final ICR to the Borrower
Annexes:
Annex 1:    List of Participants in the Wrap-up Meeting
Annex 2:    Achievement for the period 1989-1995
Annex 3:    Achievement for the period 1995-1997
Annex 4:    Operational Plan for the period 1997-99 for the Region.
Annex 5:    Operational Plan for the period 1997-99 for the MOA.
Addis Ababa
October 23, 1997



Annex 1:       List of Participants at the Wrp-up Meeting of the Project
Implementation Completion Mission on October 22, 1997
Name                         Institution                     Position
1. Mr. Ghebremedhin Belay      Planning and Programming       Head of the Department
Department (PPD), Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA)
2. Mr. Sirak Alemu             PPD/MOA                        Head, Project Financing and
Evaluation Division
3. Mr. Zena Estifano           PPD/MOA                        Soil Studies Expert
4. Mr. Habtamu Segahu          Regional Bureau of Agnrculture,   Coordinator, Project
Amhara Northern Region State    Implementation Unit (PIU)
S. Mr. Getachew Bekure         Ministry of Economic Develop-   Teamn Leader
ment and Cooperation (MEDAC)
6. Mr. Kifle Asfaw             MEDAC                          Expert
7. Ms. Bhagwanti Khushalani    AFTA2- The World Bank          Mission Leader
8. Mr. Berhane Manna           AFMET- Resident Mission        Mission Member
9. Mr. Yoseph Woldemichael     Consultant                     Mission Member



Annex 2: Achievements of the Peasant Agricultural Development Project I (1989/90 - 1994/95)
Acheivement
Item                    Target*   Quantity    Percent         Remarks
Institutional Strengtheningg
Training (No.)
-Local                                      NS           25         - Targets not available or
-Overseas                                   NS           15         - not specified.
Technical Assistance                         72          34       47
Agricultural Extension
- Residences/Offices for Das (No.)           419          416       99
- Local Training (PD)                      28,794      13,095       46  (SMSs and DAs)
- Field Visits (PD)                      1,541,570    299,219       19  Low performance due to
- Workshops (No.)                            1188         960       81  civil strife during 1990-
- Technical Assistance (mm)                    36           6       16  1991 and restructuring in
- Res. Ext.Link.Com.(RELC) meeting (No.)        8           8      100  1992-93.
Rural Women in Development
- Micro Projects (No.)                          8           7       88
- Training
- Local (PD)                             69,095       16,888      24  Low performance due to
- In-Service Tmg. (No.)                   2,108         457       22  civil war during 1990-91
- Overseas (No.)                            NS            2         - and restructuring in
- Workshops (PD)                            4,904         892       18  1992-93.
Rural Technology Promotion (No.)
- Farmer Trng.Serv.Sta.(FTSSs)                 15          10       67
- Const.of Rural Tech. Prom. Cent.(RTPC)        2           2      100
- RTPC Equipment                                2           2      100
Field Trials & Crop Dev. (No.)
-Field Trials                               1,139         807       71
- Crop Development (Store Construc.)            3           3      ioo
Cooperative Development
- Training
-Accountants (No.)                          40           25       62
-Auditors (PD)                            3,880       4,658      120
- Techical Assistance                         NS            6         -
-Accountants (PD)                         3,220       2,160       67
-Book/Store Keepers                      67,256      14,887       22
-SC Members (PD)                          7,637      24,257       51
-SC Auditing (No.)                        2,067         559       27
Agric. Input Supply (AISCO)
- Fertilizer - DAP & Urea (MT)            242,000     242,000      100
- Sprayers (No.)                            5,000       3,250       65
-Training (Overseas)                          NS            6        -
- Credit to Farners (AIDB) (Mil.NYr.)          35          49      140
Funding (USSm)
- IDA                                        85.0        82.4
- Government                                 33.6         5.4
Total                                       118.6        87.8



* Annex 3: Achievements of the Peasant Agricultural Development Project 1 (1995/96 - 1996/97)
Acheivement
Item                    Target*   Quantity  Percent            Remarks
Institutional Strengtheningg
- Technical Assistance (TA)                     5          0         0  Unavailability of qualified
- Training (No.)                                                       local consultants.
-Local                                       143        52        36  No TA for training recruited
-Overseas                                     59        37        63  11 Adet, 2 Sirinka, I Sheno.
- Adet Research Center                                                  Provided 2 tractors, I thre-
sher, I pickup and Lab.Eqp.
Agricultural Extension
- Residences/Offices for DAs (No.)            681       751        110  High emphasis by Govt.
- On-Farm Demonstrations (No.)              4,412      2,206        50
- Training (PD)
- Overseas (No.)                              6         0         0
- Local/Farmer Fielddays (PD)            45,750    11,751        26
- Workshops (No.)                           709       874        123
-Crediti to Farrners (DBE&CBE) (Mil.Yr)        NS        .87         -
Rural Women in Development                    259         47        18  Restructuring and merging
- Micro Projects (No.)                      68,900    10,975        16  of activities with extension.
- Local Training(PD)                           11          0         0
- Workshops (No.)
Rural Technology Promotion                      5          5       100
- Farmer Tech.Serv.Sta.(FTSSs) (No.)
- Pilot Projects (No.)                          9          5        56
- Biogas                                      2          1       50
-Solar Pumps
- Training (PD)                              6,490     1,899        29
-Farmers                                    850       360        42
- DAs & Home Agents
Field Trials & Crop Dev.                      116        110        95
- Field Trials (No.)                          180        162        90
- Crop Development (No.)
- Training (PD)                              6,666     3,430       51
- Fanner fielddays               .        18,464      660         4
- Farmers Training                        3,640       330         9
- Fieldstaff Training
Cooperative Development                                                 Transfer of Coop.Dev.Dept.
- Local Technical Assistance (No.)            950        514        54  from RAB to newly establi-
-Accounting                                1150       221         19  shed institute within the
-Auditing                                                            region.
- Training (PD)                             30,300     8,956        30
-Coop. Executives                        22,840      3,117        14
-Coop. Book/Shop/Storekeepers              2,116     1,072       51
-Coop. Organizers                         4,958        752        15
- Coop. Auditors/Account/Mark.Cred.
Funding (USSm)
- IDA                                         85.0      82.4
- Government                                  33.6       5.4
Total                                        118.6      87.8



Operational Plan for the Continuation of some of the prominant activities of
PADEP I  Projection ( 997/98- 1999/2000) RAB)
1997198                   1998199                  1999/2000                    Total
3               Activity                 Unit    Physical   Budget ETB    Physical    Budgel ETB    Physical    Budget ETB    Physical    Budget ETB
plan                      Plan                      Plan                       Plan
1. Agricultural Extension
* DAS Ofrices
*   DAS Residences                    No.             256      2155100           338      287J4I00()       450      3846800          1044      8876000
*   Mule Procurement                  No.             256      3114800           369      4342400          494      5858400          1228    13315600
*   Workshops                         No.             217       278200           345       440700          470       604100          1032      1323000
_No.           1216      8062080          1216     8062080          1216      8062080         3648    24186240
2. Field trials & Crop Devt
* Houticultuic trial
*   ljrigation trial                  No.               17      1360000           19       152000            19       152000           55       440000
*   Hosticulture Nurserv              No.               14       140000           15       150000            15       150000           44       440000
*   Roat crop Nursczy                 No.               26      200000            27       270000            27       270000           80       614000
Ro0t a., Nas                      No.               19      114000            20       120000            20       120000           59       354000
*    .5 ha. trial                     No.               21        63000           21        63000(           21        63000           63        189000
* 2.5 he. rce ftial               No.               4        32000             4        32000             4        32000           12        96000
*   cofee Nursay                      No.                8        80000            8        80000             8        80000           24       240000
*   Coton trial                       No.                1         4000            1         4000             1         4000             3        12000
3.  Cooperative DeMt.
*   Coop. accounting
*   Coop. auditing                    MD              1105        22100         1658        33000          1105        22100         3868         77200
*   TrM1)                                          ;  1512        37800         2268        56000          1512        37800         5292        131600
*   Coop. Executives                  MD               850        17000         1275        25500           850        17000         2975         59500
. Coop  torekeepers                   MD               510        10200          765        15200           510        10200          1785        35600
*   Coop. storekeepen                 MD               170         3400          255         5100           170         3400           395        11900
*   CODP. Organier                    MD               168         4200          255         6410           168         4200           58s        14800
*   Coop. Auditors                    MD               116         2900          174         4,100          116         2900          406         10200
Sourc: RAB/ANRS, October 1997
PI.



Proposal for continuation of Institutional strengthening of MOA Sectoral Services Agricultural
Extension Department's Media support for next 3 years
Activity                     Annual Budget (US$000) to be financed by Donor and Government
1997/98             1998/99           1999/2000              Total
1. Equipment                               2923.7                                                       2923.7
2. Mobile Cinema Unit                        929.4                                                       929.4
3. Seminar Rooms Construction                 50.0                50.0                64.2               164.2
4. Lab. rooms construction                   285.0               285.0               286.4               856.4
5. Trainings                                 120.0               120.0                60.0              '240.0
6. Techn. Assistance                         160.0               160.0               160.0               480.0
7. Staffing                                  126.0               126.3               127.5               380.1
8. Operational costs                         646.3                66.3                73.3               785.9
Total                    5240.7              747.6               771.4               6759.7
.   .                    in~~~~~~~



Estimates of average production of Three major cereal crops grown by all farmers in the PADEP I
Project Zones in the Amhara National Regional State (ANRS)
1992/93                                 1993/94                                 1994/95                                        1995/96
Crops        Area        Yield        Prod.          Area         Yield        Prod.          Area        Yield        Prod.         Area          Vield               Prod.
(ha)      (QI/ba)        (Qt)          (be)        (Qt/ba)        (Qt)          (ha)        (Qtlba)       (ha)          (ha)         (Qt/ha)              (ha)
Wheat       211,940       10.5      2,219,400       229,531         9.2       2,104,947      238,213       12.1       2,882,727     248,153         11.7              2,901,181
Teff       720,480       7.0       5,045,880-      744,986         7.5       5,547,137      764,235        9.9       7,542,346      746,086         8.0              5,952,696
Maize       219,880       16.0      3,518.080       222,101        16.3       3,628,533      222,976       20.7      4,613,860      235,767         20.0              4,715,340
Total      1,152,30        -      10,753,3         1,19,618                  11,280,617     1,225,424       *        15,038,928     1,230,00         -               13,S69,217



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
PEASANT AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1956-ET)
NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
1.    The ICR Mission has no doubt that the Project's main objective -- to increase
production, productivity and incomes of the smalIholders or peasant farmers -- has been
met fully during the initial five project years as a result of the satisfactory implementation
of the Inputs Supply Component, under which substantial amounts of fertilizer were
imported and distributed by the Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO).
2.    However, the contribution by other components towards the Project's main
objective is less evident, and the performance review is in this context severely hampered
by; (i) a lack of indicators on development impact; and (ii) the structural changes in
institutional environment which occurred during implementation. In this context it has
been particularly disappointing to note that the technical assistance, identified at appraisal
to set up a monitoring and evaluation system for the project, was not recruited. Also
restructuring/down-sizing of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) at central (Addis Ababa)
level and the regionalization (devolution of powers to regional administrations, including
Amhara National Regional State Bureau of Agriculture or RAB/ANRSBA) led to loss of
institutional memory of the project. The rather sophisticated approach presented in the
SAR (in which growth rates for crop yields were set as a function of fertilizer, extension,
institutional strengthening etc.) was not used due to non-availability of data, except for
that part of incremental production directly related to fertilizer supplied by the Project.
Project Benefits
3.    The economic analysis has, due to the above mentioned constraints, been
performed on the basis of solely the benefits deriving from the incremental foodgrain
production due to fertilizer supplied under the Project. The incremental foodgrain
production is'estimated based on the actual distribution of fertilizer, assuming an average



2
yield increase of 5 kilograms of foodgrains per kilogram of fertilizer. The value of this
ratio is not a result of any monitoring or evaluation activities. It is recalled that: (i) the
monotoring and evaluation system, for technical assistance was foreseen in the SAR and
never got implemented; and (ii) repeated requests for recruiting a monitoring and
evaluation specialist within the PIU, agreed upon at the time of extension of the project,
were not followed-up by the Borrower. Therefore, the ratio of incremental foodgrains per
unit of fertilizer has been set for this analysis on the basis of findings presented during an
FAO/Fertilizer Input Unit sponsored workshop held in 1994 in Addis Abeba which
focussed on fertilizer impact analysis on Ethiopian agriculture with particular reference to
Gojam and Gonder areas. On the basis of the presented findings it is estimated that
incremental foodgrains production, resulting from fertilizer supplied by the project,
would amount to about 1.2 million metric tons of foodgrains; of these 135 thousand
metric tons (MT) in 1989, 115 thousand MT each in 1990 and 1991, 185 housand MT
each in 1992 and 1993, 245 thousand MT in 1994 and 220 thousand MT in 1995.
Estimated incremental foodgrains production due solely to project imported fertilizer is
shown, within/outside the North-western Zone (Region 3) in Table 1, below.
Table 1      Incremental Foodgrains Production due to Fertilizer
(metric tons '000)
Year               Within               Outside              Total
North-westem Zone   North-western Zone
19S9                100                  35                   135
1990                85                   30                   115
1991                85                   30                   115
1992                 135                 so                   185
1993                135                  50                   185
1994                 180                 65                  245
1995                                     f2Q
Toall               880                  320                 1,200
Value of Incremental Production
4.    The incremental production of foodgrains has been valued in economic terms by
allowing for an average (weighted) farmgate import parity price (in constant 1997 US
dollars). Details on the valuation of foodgrains are shown in Table 3 of the Annex.
5.    The applied weighted average farmgate import parity price for foodgrains is
derived by considering the average annual production of maize, wheat and teff during the
review period. Farngate import parity prices are summarized, along with incremental
value of production due to project induced fertilizer use, in Table 2.



3
Table 2         Value of Incremental Foodgrains Production due to Fertilizer
(US$ '000, 1997 constant prices)
Year                    Within                   Outside                    Total
North-Western Zone       North-Western Zone
1989                    28,462                    9,962                    38,423
1990                    24,192                    8,538                    32,731
1991                    24,192                    8,538                    32,731
1992                    38,423                    14,231                   52,654
1993                    38,423                    14,231                   52,654
1994                    51,231                    18,500                   69,731
1995                    45,538                    17,077                   62,615
Project Costs
6.      The total project costs in nominal terms (equivalent to US$ 87.839 million) are
the sum of disbursements by IDA (US$ 82.45 million, of which US$ 69.615 million for
fertilizer imports) and contributions by the GOE (Birr 25.528 million). These costs are
used as the basis for the calculation of economic project costs, whereby corrections are
made to reflect transfer payments such as taxes and duties, as well as subsidies. The
economic costs are expressed in constant 1997 US dollar equivalent by accounting for the
impact of domestic/international inflation. Prevailing exchange rates were used to convert
the local contributions into US$ equivalent and (farmgate) import parity prices for
economic valuation of fertilizers (DAP and urea). Economic costs are shown in Table 3.
Table 3         Economic Costs of the Project
(US$ '000, 1997 constant prices)
Year           Govenmment of                 IDA                           Total
Ethiopia
1989                236                     16,296                         16,532
1990                1,531                   15,139                         16,670
1991                234                     25,308                        25,542
1992                 74                     30,845                        30,919
1993                645                      2,180                         2,825
1994                556                       330                           886
1995                458                       ISO                           638
1996                1,132                     0                            1,132
1997                722                       280                          1,002



4
Economic Cash-flow and Indicators
7.     Table 4, below, details the economic costs of the project, its direct benefits and
the net cash-flow. The economic costs are shown separately for the global project and the
North -western Zone. It can be depicted from table 4 that: (i) the net cash-flow is positive
throughout the period 1989 to 1995, and negative only in 1996 and 1997; (ii) the negative
values for net benefits are occurring during years in which no fertilizer was distributed by
the project; and (iii) the negative net cash flows are irrelevant when compared to the
consistent surpluses generated by fertilizer in earlier project years.
Table 4         Economic Costs, Benefits and Net Cash-flow of the Project
(US$ '000, 1997 constant prices)
Year        Project         Project        Benefits      Benefits        Net          Net
Costs          Costs           from          from        Benefits     Benefits
Inclusive      Inclusive         All        N-W Zone         All       N-W Zone
All        N-W Zone 1)      Fertilizer    Fertilizer    Fertilizer    Fertilizer
Fertilizer     Fertilizer
(1)            (2)             (3)           (4)       (5=(3)-(1)   (6)=(3)-(2)
1989         16,532         14,686          38,432        28,462       21,891        13,776
1990         16,670          14,824         32,731        24,192        16,060       9,368
1991         25,542         23,696          32,731        24,192        7,189         496
1992         30,919         27,227          52,654        38,423       21,735        11,196
1993         2,825           2,825          52,654        38,423       49,829        35,598
1994          886            886            69,731        51,231       68,845        50,345
1995          638            638            62,615        45,538       61,978       44,901
1996         1,132           1,132            0             0          -1,132        -1,132
1997         1,002           1,002            0             0          -1,002        -1,002
note: 1) N-W Zone Norh-weswn Zone (Region 3)
8.     In concurrence with the findings of the appraisal mission it is found that the
economic rate of return (ERR) is extremely high (about 1,000%) when the returns from
fertilizer are considered and in any case far above the generally applied cut-off rate for
economic feasibility (set for Ethiopia in the range of 10 to 12%). The cash flow analysis
reveals that the net present value (NPV) is (discounted at 12%) about US$ 92 million in
the North-western Zone and about US$ 137 million when one considers the entire amount
of fertilizer imported and distributed. Similarly the benefit - cost ratio is about 2.5 for the
North-Western Zone and about 3.0 when the impact of all fertilizer imported and
distributed is considered. It is therefore concluded that the economic impact of the project
has been significant, even more so as additional benefits deriving from components other
than Inputs Supply (such as Capacity Building, Agricultural Services) were not included.



Table 1
ETHIOPIA
PADEP 
Inmplementation Completion Report
Fertilizer (MT) Supplied by the Project and Distributed Witbin and Outside the Project Area
19Bi3                 1990                    1991                    1992                1993                 1994                  1995                        All
DAP       Urea      DAP         Urea           OAP         Urea       DAP       Urea       DAP       Urea       DAP       Urea      DAP         Urea       DAP        Ura        All
Easl Gojamn                         17,000     500       6.700        1.252        6,917         701      9,898      1,662      9,105     1,262     12,687     2,863     8,712      2,069      71.019     10,309     81,328
Whs2 Goparn                          930       357       8.3B1        262          8.048         10       11,785      234      11,107      100      15,613     189       16,191      691       72,055     1,843      73,898
Sub-total Gojeam                    17,930     857       15,081      1.514         14,965        711      21,613     1,896     20,212     1.362     28,300     3,052     24,903     2,760      143,074    9,392     152,466
95%.      5%        91%          9/.           95%          5%        9r2.       8%        94%        6%       90%.       10%       90%         I0%       94%        6%        88%
North Gondar                         800       200        123          38           588           0        919        196       3,231      359      1,286      619       1,074       424       8,021       1,836     9,857
South Gondar                         241        130       500         62            432           0        1,703      714       1,879      207      2,098      512       2,385       341       9.238       1,966     11,204
Sub-lotal Gondar                     1,041     330        623         100           1,020         0       2,622       910       5,110      366      3,384      1,131     3,459       765       17,259     3,802     2i,061
76%       24%       86%          14%          1001%         01%       74%       26%        90%.      I0%.      75%        25%       82%         18%        82.        I8W%      12%.
Total Mthin Project Area            28,972     2 ,87     25,704      1,614         25,985        711      24,305     2,806     25,322     2,928     31,684     4,183     28,362     3,525      160,333    13,194    173,527
Tou Within Projec Area, Rounded         20,000                17,000                   17,000                 27,0Do               27,000              36,0D0                32,000                176,000
rotal Outside Proj ctArea, Rounded       7,000        |        6,000                    6,000          |        O,0000              10,000               13,000               12,000                66,000
rout Provided by th Project, Rounded     27,000                23,000                  23,000          |       37,000               37,000              49,000                44,000               242,000
'._ ~             ~    I    I~ -1r1                                                         1   1r  l                                                     I =='  I     
Note: Todl IsWorled wilh fnda of PADEP I was 242.000 MT. hweer. d  di lence between 242.000 MT an 176.000 MT - or approx 66,000 MT - was dstibued
to oiir palt of Vt counby - pe ageemet reacted under ERMP (aid UrefoWrek aIndced aa et           rpp outlsie Ve poect    )



Table 2
ETHIOPIA
PADEP I
Impkmentation ComWietion Rcport
Estimated Incremcntal Foodgrains Producdon Within and Outside the Project Area Dut to Fertilizer
(values In constant prices of 1997)
1989                19o                     1991                  1992                 1993                1994                 1995                  Ail
Foodgrains           Foodgains               Foodgrains            Foodgrains           Foodgrains          Foodgrains           Food sina            Foodgrains
Total in MT Incremental                 135,000               115,000                 I 15.000              185,000            15,000              245,000              220,000              1,200.000
- Wthin Proje Area                     100,000               85S000                  85,000                135,000              135.000             180,000              160,000              880,000
- Outside Projed Arm                    35.000               30.000                  30,000                 50,000              50,000              65,000               60,000               320,000
Total Equivaent in USS 000              38,423                32,731                  32,731                52,654               52,654              69,731               62,615               341.538
-WIhin Project Area                     28,462               24,192                  24,192                 38,423              38,423              51,231               45,538               250,462
- Outside Project Area                  9,962                 8,538                   S,538                 14.231              14,231               IS,500               17,077               91,077
Note:        1 kilograrnmotfftlizer *                  5       k bgrunes odf"grna
1 kilogun of toodiran -                  1.85     Ebr. weighted emnonmc (langte) vae, constant pce  1997
I US$ is equlvaient t                    65      8i
Avera  application based on staistc on feauezer suppty and culbvated area wheat maize and tett, pmvided by MOAIPPD



Table 3
ETH10
PADEP I
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Price of Major Foodgrains
(values in constant prices of 1997)
unit               Wheat                  Maize                  Teff
(Tradable)             (Tradable)         (Non-Tradable)
FOB Price                             US$/MT                 185                     150
Ocean Fright and                      US$IMT                  60                     60
Insurance
CIF Pri&o                             US$JMT                 245                    210
CIF Price                              Birr/MT               1,593                  1,365          _
Port Handling and                      Birr/MT                35                     35       
Clearance
Transport Assab -                      Bini/MT               270                    270
Regional Stores
Loading/Unloading                      BirrnMT               100                    100
and Transport to
W oredas                                                                  _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
Econornic price at                     Birr/MT               1,998                  1,770
Woreda
Transport to Farm                      Bin/IMT                50                     50
Storage Losses                        Biff/MT                200                    180
Farm-gate Price                        Birr/MT               1,748                  1,540
- rounded                             Biff/MT               1,700                  1,500                 2,000
- rounded                             US$/MT                262                    231                   308
Average Cultivated                      HA                 232,000       [        223,000        J      744,000
Note: average area is based on 1992/93 - 1995/96 statistics



Table 4
ETHIOPIA
PADEP I
lmplementation Completion Report
Economic Price of Fertilizers
(values in constant prices of 1997)
unit               DAP                    Urea                 MOP
FOB Price                            US$/MT                 210                   190                   119
Ooean Fright and                     US$1MT                 60                     60                   60
Insurance
CIF Price                            US$/MT                 270                   250                   179
CIF Price                            Biff/MT               1,755                  1,625                1,164
Pod Handling and                     BirrnMT                35                     35                   35
Clearance
Transport Assab -                    BirriMT                270                   270                  270
Regional Stores
Loading/Unloading                    Binr/MT                110                   110                   110
and Transport to
Woredas                                                        .
Economic price at                    Birr/MT               2,170                 2,040                 1,579
Woreda
Transport to Farm                     BirrIMT               s0                     50                   50
Farm-gate Price                      Bin/MT                2,120                .1u9!tO9x
- rounded                            Binr/MT              2,100                 2,000                 1,500
______  __II_



Table 5
EIHQ
PADEJ! 
Implementation Completion Report
Imports of Fertilizer by Year
(MT)
Imports                           |                      Consumption                       |
DAP                   Urea                  Total              DAP                Urea               Total
annual  cumulativ    annual    cumulative    annual cumulativ  annual cumulativ  annual cumulativ  annual cumulative
1989                        44,000    44,000     6,000        6,000      50,000    50,000    26,000    26,000    1,000   1,000    27,000    27,000
1990                        22,500    66,500     6,000       12,000      28,500    73,500    21,000    47,000    3,000    4,000    24,000    51,000
1991                        72,500    139,000    6,000       18,000      78,500   157,000   22,000    69,000    1,000    5,000    23,000    74,000
1992                        73,000   212,000     12,000      30,000      85,000   242,000   33,000   102,000   4,000    9,000    37,000   II 1,000
1993                          0      212,000       0         30,000        0     242,000   34,000   136,000   3,000    12,000   37,000   148,000
1994                          0      212,000       0         30,000        0     242,000   43,000   179,000   6,000    18,000   49,000   197,000
1995                          0      212,000       0         30,000        0     242,000   40,000   219,000   5,000    23,000    45,000   242,000
1996                          0      212,000       0         30,000        0     242,000      0      219,000     0      23,000     0      242,000
1997                          0      212,000       0         30,000        0     242,000      0      219,000     0      23,000     0      242,000



Table 6
ETHIOPIA
rADE? I
Inmulementation Completioon Report
Economic Cost of Fertilizer Distributed by the Project
(values in constant prices of 1997, USS)
1989                  1990                     19911                  1992                  1993                114                   19                          Total
DAP       Urea      DAP          Ursa          DAP          Urea      DAP        Ure        DAP       Urea       DAP       Urea       DAP        Urs        DAP        Urea        AM
FwzeeIzr in MT:
-ftin  Projec Area rounded         19,000     1,000     16.000       2,000         16,000       1,000     24,000     3,000      25,000     2,000    32,000      4,000     28.000     4,000      160,000    16.000    176,000
- Outside Pmjet Area ounded         7,000       0        5,000       1,000         6,000          0        9,000      1,000     9,000      1,000     11,000     2,000     11,000      1,000     59,000      7,000     66,000
Totl FeElkler                      26,000     1,000     21,000       3.000         22.000       1,000     33,000     4,000      34,000     3,000    43,000      6,000     39,000      5,000     219.000    23,000    242.000
Import Padty Prie USSIMT              323       308        323         308           323          30S       323        308        323       308        323       30S        323        308         323        308         -
Tota CostFdfkzer USS 000             8.400      308       6.785        923          7.10         308      10.662      1,231     10,985     923       13.92     1,846     12,600      1.538     70,754      7,077      77,831
-ToalRouaded                             8,710          7_700                           7,400                  11,900               11,900               15,700                14,100                77.800
- WIn PrjW  Area Rounded                6,450                  5.800                    5.500                  8,700              * 8,700                11,600                10.300                56.600
-Outside Poject Are Runded              2,260                  1.900                    1 ,900                 3,200                3,200                4,200                 3,900                 21,200
__ l L    L                                                                       L   L                                                          L                                  



Table 7
ETHIQPIA
PADEP I
Implementation Completion Report
Project Costs
Current P.ces                                                  Constant Prices 1997
Year                GOE                         IDA                             Total               GOE                 IDA                Total
Total     Total Induding             Only               Project Costs      Total    Total          Total           Project Costs
4)      All Fertilizer 3)         Fertilizer       I         Exd. Fort                    Exd.  rt Ind. Fert. Exd. Fert. Ind. Fert.
Birr '000     uSS 000                USS '000       _       USS 000        fir '000  USS '000      USS V000           USS'000
1989                 452          16,490                 16,256            16,708     452       489      236       234      16,296    470      16,532
1990                2,956         15,100                 9,076             16,528    7,452     3,169     1,531    6,024    15,139    7,555     16,670
1991                 456          15,090                 15,051            15,310     259       484      234        39     25,308     273      25,542
1992                 289         32,800                  29,232            32,871    3,639     304        74      3,568    30,845    3,642    30,919
1993                3,169         2,180                    0               2,800     2,800     3,298-    645      2,180     2,180    2,825     2,825
1994                3,373          330                     0                870       870      3,475     556       330       330      886       886
1995                2,835          180                     0                629       629      2,892     458       180       180      638       638
1996                7,298           0                      0               1,121     1,121     7,371     1,132      0         0       1,132     1,132
1997                4,700          280                     0               1,002     1,002     4,700     722       280       280      1,002    1,002
Total               25,528        82,450                 69,615            87,839    18,224    26,182    5,589    12,835    90,558    18,424    96,147
84%
Note: 1) as per information received from AISCE (previously Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporatbon or AISCO)
2) economic value based on the unit values presented in the table: Economic Price of Fertilizer
3) includes fertilizer distributed within, as well as fertilizer distributed outside the project area (World Bank Integrated Controbers System)
4) according to the Ministry of Agriculture, MOA/PPD, Addis Ababa



Table 8
ETHIOPIA
PADEP-
Implementation Completion Repot
Economic Cash Flow Analysis
(USS '000, constant 1997 prices)
Investment                                   O&M                Benefits               Net Benefits
Year                        Fertilizer 1)                  Other                  Total            3)                 Total                   Total
Within   Outside    Total               2)              Within      All                Within   Outside     All     Within      All
1989                14,215    1,846     16,062              470              14,686    16,532      0       28,462    9,962    38,423    13,776    21,891
1990                7,269     1,846     9,115              7,555             14,824    16,670      0       24,192    8,538    32,731    9,368      16,060
1991                23,423    1,846    25,269               273             23,696    25,542       0       24,192    8,538    32,731      496       7,189
1992                23,585    3,692    27,277              3,642            27,227    30,919       0       38,423    14,231    52,654    11,196    21,735
1993                  0        0          0                2,825             2,825     2,825       0       38,423    14,231    52,654    35,598    49,829
1994                  0        0          0                 886               886       886        0       51,231    18,500    69,731    50,345    68,845
1995                  0        0          0                 638               638       638        0       45,538    17,077    62,615    44,901    6r,978
1996                  0        0          0                1,132             1,132     1,132       0         0         0         0       (1,132)   -1,132
1997                  0        0          0                1,002             i,002     1,002       0         0         0         0       (1,002)   -1,002
l l I nmaS'w' I.                                                                  I I  I
K  ,,~~KI
Note: 1) bsed on quantuit  bowed as provided by AISE
2) basd on dmburaemeb by IDA nd GOE, excluding values attributed to fertilizer mentioned under 1)
3) mcidd under heves*me  and discontinued after project closed



Appendix C
NORTH - WESTERN   ETHIlOP IA
AOMINISTRATIVE   DIVISIONS
le;704    btoundary                                   / 
.b-/                                                 '-C0  \                              .,dW
I.   d"n Str fc.e \btee bountdary  1ST  
---m tb:o bndOry                           SV'
'-.:  boundary
*-~~~~  boundCry ~~~~~~~~~~..... I.
| I      W        E      A            M 'A Mt     
Bt  / 3 l U flL,j;,, S TtU4rt                                             ,
I                 NboGlt 40 6w'eYedas) gt  t    rE5EDt  (  S I M E N
G.O  N O  A R       .     ' )N:
G'l - '0    N5t 
r      n    Z~~~1ETT-WA   -            
MAIEOtA                                                  ......A ....... |  ..
--           ~~~~~C .4 I L G A    to rAO                   :B 0 ,- 
/   - -                  . ! "       -      zo.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 1.8 
CUARA                       Jn
ALSa M                                                l 
I   _              //      \\  1- *    /       ITA<*                   ;~~~~~~~~~~~PRT
OU4UR                                      /T 4,.-0  F-1.    o
/                    /   *AA G-=                    I    T--
/   M I D I R   (RD R                    *   I  SIA
< ~~~~M E T E K E L                      ......  _,fEC>^s^AXf 
I/1 .T               ............... \~  \    - RIT   @ @ESE  OPAC^
'S' A~ MK M OM    A 0 I
Cw^o~ ',  , 3*,R,u5as  OEl GA  N         
-^BA   S         <0   .^  v EG  ,.-  x-      L
--SERA                                                  5' 3~. AOJI JAJ  5 'B    H
DeA  -           D EM  RE I   -   S \A I.
.   \ r                <           t!            S>B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN:,, 
;.U~:Z:  :t-*':  5's  .  C   - 1 -
_~~ _    e-"_l  S c s :-:  C'' '  ' '           E. 3     '- -N'



ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION Ol ' TIlE AMIIARA NATiONAL REI.GIONAL STATE
1. WIRIT  GONDER        a swne GONOER             Ut.   WfS1 1101AM
Tigray   cgion ~ ~~~~~~~~1.G.nde# 0ae~                                             . F4                  IL. R.NDaeur2wa
DW"4          ~~Is. Dote              31. Mcb.se
04"t           ~~it. Foggr            is. huuawt
4. Jan Ano              la 20 K1. Fmk.n        35. A
_ _._  9*D_4            It. Ao nel           3I. SaLd 
s   u   n  A   N                 10                    15                              i                              '.^ ........ V4bt,; } / \ _941  . .............23. lSa.  31. Qumla
SU AN  .    .... Lay A                                                                                      lieo  -  -  .;s L cg1a4            S33. Abe lcdnion
f -.,                                                                                                            21.........  aC ltan   3)s  I
S. A4d AJk*ay                a   a~g           4   ue  ebiaa
100,                  $4040                 IS. lach C-Myw        ~~~~~~~~35. 13o sgacamog a
,,12                                                                                                                                      FV.  AGEW
7P<   3   3 p-Stl8 z--V. E7T COwMM
S4. Aloft         aea*a.3 I. Dangla
99                                       ~~~~~~~~~~41.4.
r   2   \1                                                                 IS. Debook                                           oit."~~~~~~~~~~~~E~g  114 Sr-naWale
S. Gondt. l.1b. Se Mi                  51   AAgaldarrn.Aai
                 53.  e&.gn                #0.AM q "
13-7                                               21               97                                                                            #  _d.l o    W.o i ler
-  -  _.   Re onal ouais                 wo  Dbv gfLA&*t je*s  $ha  sOoceAe                                                                         V  . MT 6ebo
-                         4.90  47.  Sea..
I                                                          49k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ML&d   5 LwuidaaUeeeAd
St. gAlb" &W 'A',             beebe; T'rebe      Asl gn
_0 0.8w.
23  S                                                                     so~~~~~~~~~~1.  .ayui. UPMArl WSW   Vas0
5  7   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 3   *gnbiL Aclnt.dh
10                                     84                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. SAyngwf  Itr. n Jet
39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
itt:ioaai~ ~~~~ oai91~ i.Mlee*. akm     lk
I34           .be bb,,S. A..&a .doe                                                                                 St. AWAGE &UE..
l~~~e:IomaI bouiedary  set                                                             Ut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. wCIUSeou  9X   OMW L
-   Z4A11 boundary ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  IC)                                                 X~~~~~~~I& rr  CAVAmoalnon  el  0It. Zq
OS 0gb.. M.,bo.                                          I. IIAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~MkduR     It.Liw
Al (Y)Ci.    (b  j')~~~b(' P    ~ D. L al" reioa town                                                                          T    ~   0)U /  CYI  ~ ~ 114~ anta~~  L,13& A67-ei



