Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1956 ET
         (First Peasant Agricultural Development Project)
                             between
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
           AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                      Dated December 6, 1988
                      AIDB PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  6,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  AGRICULTURAL AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (AIDB).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  of even
date herewith between the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
(the Borrower) and the Association,  the Association has agreed to
make available to  the  Borrower  an  amount in various currencies
equivalent  to   sixty   six   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 66,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that AIDB
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and  AIDB,  a  part  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available by the Borrower to AIDB and  part of it by AIDB to AISCO
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Financing Agreement, respectively; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS AIDB, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  AIDB  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to  this end, shall assist AISCO
in carrying out Part  D  (1)  of  the  Project and shall carry out
Part D (3) of the Projet  with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts D (1) and (3) of the Project.
     Section 2.02. AIDB shall  relend  out  of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary loan, for purposes  of  Part  D  (1) of the Project, an
amount not exceeding the equivalent  to $69,300,000 to AISCO under
the Financing Agreement  under  terms  and  conditions which shall
conform to the Letter  Agreement  and  shall have been approved by
the Association and which  shall  include, inter alia, a repayment
term of one year  and  an  interest  rate  of six percent (6%) per
annum.
     Section 2.03. AIDB shall  make  available, from the principal
and interest received from AISCO  on  the  loan from AIDB to AISCO
referred to in  Section  2.02  of  this  Agreement, production and
development  credit  to  SCs  and  PAs  on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory to the Association and consistent with the on-lending
terms set forth in the  Letter  Agreement as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
     Section 2.04.  AIDB  shall,  for  purposes  of  making credit
available to SCs to finance the purchase of fertilizer from AISCO,
take into  consideration  the  following  factors  in assessing SC
credit eligibility and  credit  limits:  (a) the fertilizer demand
estimate  certified  by  MOA;   (b)   the  formal  or  provisional
registration with MOA by the  SC;  (c) satisfactory SC account and
repayment  records,  including  repayment  obligations  under  any
outstanding development  loans;  (d)  satisfactory bookkeeping and
management standards; and (e)  satisfactory appraisal of the total
debt service capacity of the SC.
     Section  2.05.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Part D (3) of  the  Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall  be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.06. AIDB shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records and  reports,  maintenance  and  land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of this  Agreement  and  Parts D (1) and (3) of
the Project.
     Section 2.07. AIDB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  and the Financing Agreement.
Page  3
Except as the Association  shall  otherwise  agree, AIDB shall not
take or concur  in  any  action  which  would  have  the effect of
amending, abrogating,  assigning  or  waiving  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.08.  (a)  AIDB  shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Part  D  (1)  of  the Project (in conjunction with
AIDB) and Part  D  (3)  of  the  Project,  the  performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
     (b)  AIDB  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Parts D (1) and (3) of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit,  or  the performance by AIDB of its
obligations  under  this  Agreement,  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement, and under the Financing Agreement.
     Section 2.09. AIDB shall,  by  April  30  during each year of
Project execution, prepare an  action program setting forth, inter
alia, the Project-related  staff  training,  procurement and other
Project activities and projected physical and financial targets to
be achieved by AIDB under the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of AIDB
     Section 3.01. AIDB shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance  with sound administrative and financial
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. AIDB shall, at  all times, operate and maintain
its machinery, equipment  and  other  property,  and  from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in  accordance  with  sound engineering and financial
practices.
     Section  3.03.  AIDB  shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  AIDB  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  AIDB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
Page  4
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of AIDB thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
             (i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
                    Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with
                    its terms; or
            (ii)    the date  20  years  after  the  date  of this
                    Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
AIDB of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For AIDB:
          Agricultural and Industrial
            Development Bank
          P.O. Box 1900
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
                                            Telex:
Page  5
                                               21173
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  AIDB  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
General Manager or such  other  person  or  persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing,  and AIDB shall furnish to the
Association  sufficient  evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                    By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
