Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1956 ET
         (First Peasant Agricultural Development Project)
                             between
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
              AGRICULTURAL INPUTS SUPPLY CORPORATION
                      Dated December 6, 1988
                      AISCO PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  6,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association) and AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
SUPPLY CORPORATION (AISCO).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between  the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of Ethiopia
(the Borrower) and  the  Association,  the  Association has agreed
to make available to the  Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent  to   sixty   six   million   Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 66,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that AISCO
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by subsidiary loan agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and  AISCO,  a  part  of  the  proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to AISCO on the  terms  and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
     WHEREAS AISCO, in consideration of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  AISCO  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts D (1)  and  (2)  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial,  engineering  and  agricultural  practices,  and  shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources  required for Parts D (1)
and (2) of the Project.
     Section 2.02. AISCO shall,  by  May  15 of each year, prepare
and  furnish  to  the  Borrower  for  approval  a  peasant  sector
fertilizer procurement schedule setting forth the following:
     (a)  the amount and type of fertilizer to be procured;
     (b)  the schedule on which  the fertilizer would be required;
and
     (c)  the estimated total  foreign  exchange  required for the
procurement of the  fertilizer  and  the  sources  of such foreign
exchange.
     Section 2.03. AISCO shall,  by  June  30, 1989: (a) prepare a
revised  stock  management  and  control  operational  program  to
improve control over stocks  currently  stored in about 750 stores
operated by MOA; (b)  develop  a comprehensive set of operational,
management  and  staff  development   policies  to  improve  staff
efficiency; (c)  prepare  a  comprehensive  management information
system and an operational plan, including the implementation costs
of such plan; (d) carry  out  a  review of the financial structure
and requirements of AISCO; and  (e) prepare an operational plan to
improve the financial  control  and  internal  audit procedures of
AISCO.
     Section  2.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.05. AISCO shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records and  reports,  maintenance  and  land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of this  Agreement  and  Parts D (1) and (2) of
the Project.
     Section 2.06. AISCO  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  and the Financing Agreement.
Except as the Association  shall  otherwise agree, AISCO shall not
take or concur  in  any  action  which  would  have  the effect of
amending, abrogating,  assigning  or  waiving  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  3
     Section  2.07.  (a)  AISCO  shall,  at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Parts D  (1)  of  the Project (in conjunction with
AIDB) and Part  D  (2)  of  the  Project,  the  performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
     (b)  AISCO  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Parts D (1) and (2) of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit,  or the performance by AISCO of its
obligations  under  this  Agreement,  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement, and under the Financing Agreement.
     Section 2.08. AISCO shall,  by  April  30 during each year of
Project execution, prepare an  action program setting forth, inter
alia, the Project-related  staff  training,  procurement and other
Project activities and projected physical and financial targets to
be achieved by AISCO under the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of AISCO
     Section 3.01. AISCO shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance  with sound administrative and financial
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. AISCO shall, at all times, operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound engineering and
financial practices.
     Section  3.03.  AISCO  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) AISCO  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  AISCO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  except  as  the  Association  may  otherwise agree,
               furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of AISCO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
             (i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
                    Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with
                    its terms; or
            (ii)    the date  20  years  after  the  date  of this
                    Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
AISCO of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For AISCO:
          Agricultural Inputs
             Supply Corporation
          P.O. Box 100077
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
                                            Telex:
                                               21482 AISCO ET
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
Page  5
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  AISCO,  may  be  taken  or executed by the
General Manager or such  other  person  or  persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and AISCO shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of  the  authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    AGRICULTURAL INPUTS SUPPLY CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Girma Amare
                                         Authorized Representative
