Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1956 ET
         (First Peasant Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 6, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1956 ET
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December   6,   1988,  between    PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF  ETHIOPIA  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will  be  carried  out  by the Borrower and,
with the Borrower's assistance,  AIDB  and  AISCO, and, as part of
such assistance, the  Borrower  will  make  available  to AIDB and
AISCO a portion of the proceeds  of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and AISCO and between the Association and AIDB;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (1)  "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
     (2)  "AISCO" means  the  Agricultural  Inputs Supply Corpora-
tion, established and operating  pursuant  to Proclamation No. 269
of 1984 of the Borrower;
     (3)  "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank, established and operating  pursuant  to Proclamation No. 158
of 1979 of the Borrower;
     (4)  "AMC"  means  the  Agricultural  Marketing  Corporation,
established and operating pursuant to  Proclamation No. 105 of the
Borrower;
     (5)  "PSPI" means  the  Price  Studies  and Policy Institute,
established and operating pursuant  to  Proclamation No. 8 of 1987
of the Borrower;
     (6)  "PADEP", collectively,  means  the  Peasant Agricultural
Development Projects;
     (7)  "PCC" means  the  PADEP  Project  Coordinating Committee
established in MOA to  coordinate  the implementation of all PADEP
projects;
     (8)  "SC" means any service cooperative, established pursuant
to the Borrower's Proclamation No. 138 of 1978;
     (9)  "PA" means any peasant association established under the
Borrower's Proclamation No. 71 of 1975;
     (10) "AIDB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AIDB of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the AIDB Project Agreement;
     (11) "AISCO Project  Agreement"  means  the agreement between
the Association and AISCO of  even  date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the AISCO Project Agreement;
     (12) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means  the Agreements to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  AIDB and the Borrower and
AISCO pursuant to Section 3.02  (b)  and (c) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
     (13) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  October 8, 1986, and January 29,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (14) "Borrower's Special Account"  means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (15) "AISCO Special Account" means the account referred to in
Page  3
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (16) "fiscal year"  means  the  fiscal  year  of the Borrower
starting on July 8  of  each  year  and  ending  on  July 7 of the
following year;
     (17) "Letter  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Borrower and the Association dated April 21, 1988, which provides,
inter alia, that on-lending rates  shall be positive in real terms
and shall provide  an  adequate  spread  for  the financial inter-
mediaries; and
     (18) "Financing Agreement" means the  agreement to be entered
into between AIDB and AISCO  pursuant  to Section 2.02 of the AIDB
Project Agreement;
     (19) "PCMED" means  the  Project  Coordination and Monitoring
and Evaluation Department of MOA.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to sixty-
six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 66,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain  in dollars the
following special accounts  in  the  National  Bank of Ethiopia on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Association: (i) the
Borrower's Special Account  for  the  purposes  of  Parts A, B, C,
D (3) and E of the Project; and (ii) the AISCO Special Account for
the purposes of Part  D  (2)  of  the  Project. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
Page  4
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15,  1999,  and  ending  August 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end shall  carry  out Part E of the Project
and, through MOA, carry  out  Parts  A,  B,  and C of the Project,
cause AISCO to carry out Parts  D  (1)  and (2) of the Project and
cause AIDB to carry out Part D  (3) of the Project, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and  in  conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial  practices,  and  shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
Page  5
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall  carry out Parts A, B, C
and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) Without  any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other  obligations  under  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause AIDB and AISCO to  perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the AIDB Project Agreement and the AISCO Project Agree-
ment all the  obligations  of  AIDB  and  AISCO therein set forth,
shall take  and  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable  AIDB and AISCO to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  relend  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR 95,000 to
AIDB under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and AIDB under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and  which shall include, inter
alia, a repayment term of  fifteen years, including a grace period
not to exceed three years,  the  foreign exchange risk to be borne
by the Borrower  and  an  interest  rate  of  two percent (2%) per
annum.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend,  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent of SDR 3,650,000
AISCO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and AISCO under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the  Association  and  which shall include, inter
alia, a repayment term of ten  years, including a grace period not
to exceed three years, at  an  interest  rate of four percent (4%)
per annum  and  the  foreign  exchange  risk  to  be  borne by the
Borrower.
     (d)  The on-lending terms to  AIDB  and  AISCO referred to in
subsections (b) and (c) of this Section shall at all times conform
to the terms of  the  Letter  Agreement,  as such agreement may be
amended from time to time.
     (e)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the  Credit,  and  except  as  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  in  respect  of Part D of the
Project shall be carried out by AIDB and AISCO pursuant to Section
2.03 of the AIDB  Project  Agreement  and AISCO Project Agreement,
respectively.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall,  following its review and
approval of the fertilizer  procurement schedule of AISCO referred
to in Section 2.02 of the  AISCO Project Agreement, furnish to the
Association in a  timely  manner  the  approved schedule, together
with the fertilizer  procurement  documents  for  the initial pur-
chases in each calendar year.
Page  6
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall take all measures necessary
to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to meet the foreign
exchange requirements to  cover  the  cost  of the availability of
fertilizer which would not be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
     Section 3.07. (a) The  Borrower  shall, not later than Decem-
ber  31,  1989,  establish  a  Technical  Assistance  Coordination
Committee (TACC) under  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The Chairman of TACC  shall  be the Head of PMECD and
other members shall include  representatives  from MOA, AISCO, and
other departments selected in consultation with the Association.
     (b)  The TACC shall be  responsible  for reviewing the status
of recruitment of consultants  and  other technical assistance and
supervise the  performance  of  all  technical assistance financed
under the Credit.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
Page  7
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  prepare, through MOA,  and  cause  AIDB,  AISCO and PSPI
to  prepare,  semi-annually,  in  a  format  satisfactory  to  the
Association, a report on the physical and financial progress under
the Project;
     (b)  furnish, through  MOA,  to  the  Association, within two
months of the  end  of  each  semi-annual  period, such report for
review and comment by the Association; and
     (c)  furnish, through  MOA,  to  the  Association, within six
months of Project completion,  a  Project completion report on the
physical and financial aspects  of  the Project, together with the
trends and achievements  in  accordance  with  a set of indicators
agreed with the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  AIDB or AISCO shall  have  failed  to perform any of its
obligations under  the  AIDB  Project  Agreement  or AISCO Project
Agreement, respectively.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that  AIDB or AISCO will be able to
perform its obligations under the  AIDB Project Agreement or AISCO
Project Agreement, respectively.
     (c)  Proclamation No. 269 of 1984  of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and adversely  the  ability  of AISCO to perform
any of its obligations under the AISCO Project Agreement.
     (d)  Proclamation No. 158 of 1979  of the Borrower shall have
been amended and suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of AIDB to perform any
of its obligations under the AIDB Project Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AIDB or AISCO or for the suspension of their operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Page  8
Conditions, namely that the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower  and AIDB, and the Borrower and
AISCO, respectively.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that the AIDB Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AIDB, and  is  legally binding upon AIDB in accord-
ance with its terms;
     (b)  that the AISCO Project  Agreement  has been duly author-
ized or ratified by AISCO,  and  is  legally binding upon AISCO in
accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower,  AIDB and AISCO, and are
legally binding upon the  Borrower,  AIDB  and AISCO in accordance
with their terms.
     Section 6.O3.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the date
of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04.  The  obligations  of  the  Borrower under Sec-
tions 3.04,  3.05  and  4.02  of  this  Agreement  shall cease and
determine on the date  on  which  the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
the Office of the  National  Committee  for Foreign Economic Rela-
tions is designated  as  representative  of  the  Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Office of the National Committee for
           Foreign Economic Relations
          P.O. Box 2428
          Addis Ababa
          Ethiopia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ONCCP ET                          21531
               Addis Ababa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  9
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                    By /s/ Girma Amare
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works:
     (a)  the Borrower              80,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
     (b)  AISCO                    780,000       45% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles, equip-
     ment, spare
     parts, office
     furniture and
     plant material:
     (a)  the Borrower           2,870,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
     (b)  AISCO                  2,640,000       75% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'
     services and
     studies:
     (a)  the Borrower             860,000       100%
     (b)  AISCO                     80,000       100%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Training:
Page  10
     (a)  the Borrower             540,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
     (b)  AISCO                     80,000       20% of local
                                                 expenditures
(5)  Fertilizers                48,400,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Conservation                  620,000       100% of foreign
     activities                                  expenditures and
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
(7)  Operating costs             1,710,000       80% until
     under Parts A,                              December 31,
     B, C and E of                               1990, 60% from
     the Project                                 January 1, 1991,
                                                 through December
                                                 31, 1992, and
                                                 40% thereafter
(8)  Refunding of                1,020,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 6,320,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 66,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
     (c)  the  term  "operating  costs"  means  vehicle  operating
costs, including spare parts and  fuel, and building and equipment
maintenance costs, and such other items as may be agreed from time
to time between the Borrower and the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  payments made or to be made  in respect of Category 6 of
the table in paragraph 1  of  this Schedule unless the Association
shall have approved the specific activities proposed in the annual
work program prepared pursuant to  paragraph A(7)(b) of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to increase peasant sector
grain  production,  productivity  and  incomes  by:  (a) improving
Page  11
efficiency in the  management  and  delivery  of agricultural ser-
vices; (b) improving the  technology available in the agricultural
sector; and (c) supporting  further incentives for producers while
minimizing the impact on consumers.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Management of Agricultural Sector Services
     (1)  Strengthening of the Project Coordination and Monitoring
and Evaluation Department of MOA.
     (2)  Improvement in financial  control  and administration in
MOA.
     (3)  Improvement in the  printing  and  editorial services of
MOA.
     (4)  Strengthening of the  agricultural extension services of
MOA.
     (5)  Carrying out of a fertilizer sub-sector study.
Part B:   Technology Development
     (1)  Strengthening  of  the  National  Field  Trials  Program
through the development of about  65 field trial sites in conjunc-
tion with about 200 intermediate  trials, about 560 on-farm trials
and about 1,100  farmer  demonstrations  in  seven  main Agro Eco-
logical Zones; and establishment of about 24 alley cropping trials
and about 18 irrigated crop trials.
     (2)  Improvement in peasant farm implements and establishment
of about 15 small  farmer  technical  service stations at selected
SCs.
     (3)  Preparation of a national conservation project.
Part C:   Northwest Zone Support Services
     (1)  Strengthening and expansion of extension services in the
regions of Gojam and Gonder.
     (2)  Strengthening of cooperative  development  and soil con-
servation services.
     (3)  Strengthening  of  Bure-Silala   soil  conservation  and
watershed management and possible extension to other watersheds.
Part D:   Agricultural Inputs Supply and Distribution
     (1)  Provision  of  fertilizer   by   AISCO  through  SCs  to
individual farmers.
     (2)  Strengthening of  AISCO's  administration and management
efficiency, including  stock  control  and procurement procedures,
for the timely  supply  of  farm  inputs  (fertilizer and improved
seeds) and pesticide sprayers to  the peasant sector at reasonable
cost through, inter alia, the construction of the first phase of a
network of about three zonal input supply stores.
     (3)  Strengthening of agricultural credit services of AIDB.
Part E:   Price Policy Analysis and Grain Marketing and Pricing
     (1)  Strengthening of the  PSPI  in  order to provide regular
advice on prices and price policies in all sectors of the economy,
including, inter alia, agriculture.
     (2)  Strengthening of the  grain  marketing and pricing capa-
Page  12
bility of the Borrower.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, office and
workshop equipment, spare  parts,  tools  and  fertilizer shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$400,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Ethiopia may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $400,000 or less
and works may be procured under  contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
less may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded  through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,  2.55  and  2.56 thereof) or, with
the prior approval of the Association, by direct purchase from the
supplier.
3.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $400,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures  shall  be  modified  to  ensure that the
conformed copy of the  contract  required  to  be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  13
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the conformed copy of
the contract together with  the  other  information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as  part  of  the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, exper-
ience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association. Such consultants  shall be selected in accord-
ance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means:
          (i)  in  respect  of  the  Borrower's  Special  Account,
               Categories (1)(a), (2)(a),  (3)(a), (4)(a), (6) and
               (7) set forth in the  table in paragraph 1 of Sche-
               dule 1 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  in respect  of  the  AISCO  Special  Account, Cate-
               gories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b)  and (4)(b) set forth
               in the table in paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to this
               Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
          (i)  in respect of  the  Borrower's  Special Account, an
               amount equivalent to $2,000,000; and
         (ii)  in respect of the  AISCO Special Account, an amount
               equivalent to $1,000,000;
to be withdrawn from  the  Credit  Account  and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
Page  14
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the  General  Conditions and paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for  the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to  Section  5.02  of  the General Conditions
with respect to the Project,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to the eligible  Categories for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such  notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
Page  15
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or theportion  thereof  
not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
A.   Management of Agricultural Sector Services
(1)  The Borrower shall,  during  Project  execution, maintain the
PCC with terms  of  reference  and  membership satisfactory to the
Association.
(2)  The Borrower shall  cause,  through  the PCC, each department
and agency  participating  in  Project  implementation  to: (a) by
April 30 of each  year,  prepare  an action program setting forth,
inter  alia,  staff  training,  procurement  activities  and other
Project  activities  and  physical  and  financial  targets  to be
achieved under  the  Project  for  the  ensuing  fiscal  year; and
(b) by June  30  of  each  year,  furnish  the consolidated action
program to the Association for information.
(3)  The Borrower shall:  (a)  by  June  30,  1989, agree with the
Association on  terms  of  reference  for  a fertilizer sub-sector
study; (b) by June 30, 1990,  carry  out such study under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; (c) by August 31, 1990,
exchange views  with  the  Association  on  the  main findings and
recommendations of the study; and (d) promptly thereafter adopt an
action program, satisfactory to  the Association, for putting into
effect the approved recommendations.
(4)  Following completion of the  study  on  the introduction of a
management  information  system,   the   Borrower  shall:  (a)  by
January 31, 1989, exchange views  with the Association on the main
findings and recommendations  of  the  study;  and (b) thereafter,
prepare an action  program,  satisfactory  to the Association, for
implementing  and  operating  the  management  information system,
which action plan shall  include staff training schedules, details
of manuals to be prepared, revised operating procedures, equipment
required and the estimated cost of implementing such system.
(5)  Following completion of  the  study  on the proposed printing
and editorial service,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by January 31,
1989, exchange views with the Association on the main findings and
recommendations of the study;  (b) promptly thereafter, prepare an
action program, satisfactory to  the Association, for implementing
and operating such printing and editorial service; and (c) furnish
Page  16
to the Association, by  August  31,  1990,  and  by each August 31
thereafter during Project execution, an annual report on the oper-
ations and financial  performance  of  the  printing and editorial
service according to a set  of indicators agreed with the Associa-
tion.
(6)  Following completion  of  the  study  on  a  rural technology
promotion program, the Borrower  shall:  (a)  by January 31, 1989,
exchange views  with  the  Association  on  the  main findings and
recommendations of the study; and (b) promptly thereafter, prepare
an action program, satisfactory  to  the Association, which action
program  shall  include  the  detailed  costs  and  implementation
arrangements of such program.
(7)  Following completion of the study on Bure-Silala soil conser-
vation  and  watershed  management,  the  Borrower  shall:  (a) by
March 31, 1989, exchange  views  with  the Association on the main
findings and recommendations  of  the  study;  (b) promptly there-
after, prepare an action program, satisfactory to the Association,
which action program shall  include  the proposed expenditures for
the Project; and (c) by  June  30, 1989, employ consultants, whose
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association, to assist  the  Borrower  in  the  preparation of the
proposed natural conservation project.
(8)  (a)  The Borrower shall carry out, during the first two years
of Project execution,  semi-annual Project implementation reviews,
such reviews  to  be  completed  not  later  than:  (i) June 1989;
(ii) December  1989;  (iii)  June  1990;  and  (iv) December 1990.
Thereafter the Project implementation reviews shall be carried out
annually, to be completed not later than December of each year. In
carrying out the reviews, the  Borrower  shall cause MOA, AIDB and
AISCO to prepare brief reports containing, inter alia, explanation
of constraints to  successful  Project implementation and possible
solutions. The reports shall then be submitted to PCC.
     (b)  PCC shall: (i) not later  than one month before the date
for carrying out the  implementation  review, furnish to the Asso-
ciation for comments the  consolidated report; and (ii) thereafter
implement the recommendations taking into account the views of the
Association.
B.   Technology Development:
     The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause the National  Research Extension Liaison Committee
to: (i) review, not  later  than  January  31, 1989, the available
scientific  and  trial  evidence  and  recommend  the  most  cost-
efficient  fertilizer  to  be  imported  under  the  Project;  and
(ii) review  with  the  National  Crop  Improvement  Committee the
annual trial activities of the Institute of Agricultural Research,
the National Field Trials Program  and the National Fertilizer and
Inputs Unit prior to the  implementation of such trial activities;
and
     (b)  cause the Zonal Research Extension Liaison Committee to:
(i) carry out, not later than March 31, 1989, a study to determine
more precisely  the  technology,  including fertilizer application
rates,  improved  seed   varieties   and  appropriate  agronomical
practices, which can be used by  the extension service in the main
Agro Ecological Zones for the main crops in high potential Woredas
of the Northwestern Zone; and  (ii) annually review the technology
recommendations arising from the  trial activities prior to having
such recommendations furnished to the extension services.
C.   Northwest Zone Support Services
(1)  The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  agricultural  extension
activities using three  basic  principles:  (a)  a  direct line of
technical command from the  regional  extension coordinator to the
Page  17
development  agents;  (b)  extension  staff  to  be  progressively
relieved of all  non-extension  activities;  and  (c) all staff to
participate in a regular  training program and structured visiting
of farmers.
(2)  The Borrower shall review  with  the  Association, by May 31,
1989, and at least once annually thereafter, the rate of expansion
of Project activities  across  Woredas  in  the  Northwest Zone in
accordance with the criteria agreed with the Association.
(3)  The Borrower shall:  (a)  by  January  31,  1989, implement a
program of regular supervision and  auditing  of SCs in the North-
west Zone; and (b) by  June  30, 1990, complete the appointment of
the required cooperative accounting and auditing staff.
D.   Inputs Supply and Distribution
(1)  The Borrower shall, by December  31, 1989, and by December 31
of each year thereafter during  Project execution, review with the
Association the performance of AISCO  under the Project in accord-
ance with performance criteria agreed with the Association and the
annual action program for  the  Project, which review shall cover,
inter alia: (a) actual  performance of implementing AISCO's annual
action plan; (b) the  timing,  accuracy  and flow of stock control
data from the field to  AISCO; (c) the performance and operational
cost of transport operations  and  management;  (d) the timing and
cost of farm inputs distribution,  including an analysis of timing
delays; (e) the pricing  of  farm inputs, including the proportion
of AISCO's overhead and operations  cost in the selling price; (f)
AISCO's financial performance and  staffing patterns; and (g) pro-
jections of future annual input demand by type of input.
E.   Price Policy Analysis and Grain Marketing and Pricing
     The Borrower  shall  maintain,  as  a  minimum,  its existing
arrangements for establishing  the  quotas  for AMC purchases from
the peasant  sector  and  for  licensed  trader  activities. These
existing arrangements include, inter alia:
     (a)  the setting of the annual  quota of AMC's purchases from
farmers on the basis of  three major principles: (i) an assessment
of  the  overall  marketable   surplus;  (ii)  AMC's  capacity  to
efficiently manage,  transport,  store  and  market  the purchased
grain; and (iii)  the  regular  requirements  of  low income urban
consumers served  by  the  kebeles  (urban  associations)  and the
requirements to maintain  a  strategic  stock  of foodgrains which
would be used to  selectively  intervene  in the market when large
price fluctuations are caused by temporary and abnormal imbalances
in supply;
     (b)  the determination of  individual  quotas  within the PAs
and SCs based on: (i)  the  per hectare productive capacity of the
land; and (ii) the family consumption requirements;
     (c)  farmers may sell any grain  in  excess of their quota on
the open market in any region of the country without restriction;
     (d)  after selling  50%  of  their  annual  purchases to AMC,
licensed grain traders may sell grain in the open markets through-
out the country without restrictions; and
     (e)  grain  traders  are  licensed  in  accordance  with  the
criteria set forth in  the  Crop Purchase Quotation, Execution and
the 1988 Budgetary Year Pricing  Policy adopted by the Borrower in
January, 1988.
(2)  The Borrower shall, by September  30  of each year of Project
execution, furnish  to  the  Association  information  on: (a) its
grain trading activities of the  previous  year; and (b) its grain
trading arrangements for the following year.
Page  18
(3)  In the event that  the quantity of foodgrains required by AMC
in accordance with the  principles  set  forth in paragraph (1)(a)
above exceed the quantity  of foodgrains available for procurement
consistent with such principles,  the  Borrower shall, by April 30
of each year of Project  execution, inform the Association on ways
and means of meeting the deficit.
(4)  The Borrower shall, by September  30  of each year of Project
execution, inform the Association of  the AMC quota fixed for each
region for the following annual harvests.
(5)  In order to  provide  producers  with  adequate incentives to
upgrade their technology  and  improve  productivity, the Borrower
shall: (a) review, on  an  annual  basis,  producer prices for all
quota grains purchased by AMC  and  for  all inputs sold by AISCO;
and (b) as the  analytical  capacity  of the PSPI develops, expand
its analytical framework for determining the relative price levels
of foodgrains in accordance with the following: (i) border prices;
(ii)  trends  in  demand  and  production;  (iii)  development  of
improved technology; (iv) comparative advantages in the efficiency
of resource use across  agro-ecological  zones and for the country
as a whole;  and  (v)  the  Borrower's  budgetary  impact of grain
prices.
(6)  The Borrower shall, by December  31  of each year, inform the
Association of: (a) the official producer prices to be applied for
the following annual  harvests  for  all  the  major  grains to be
purchased by AMC under the quota  system; and (b) the prices to be
charged by AISCO for all farm inputs.
(7)  The Borrower shall, by January  31, 1989, inform the Associa-
tion of the main conclusions  and recommendations arising from the
study on food security, including urban grain supply management.
(8)  In order to conduct  its  annual pricing analysis, manage its
grain marketing operations and  evaluate  the  impact of the grain
marketing and  pricing  reforms,  the  Borrower  shall: (a) during
Project execution, monitor and  analyze,  on  a regular basis, the
impact of the grain marketing  and pricing reforms on movements of
the set of indicators agreed with  the Association; (b) by June 30
of each year  furnish  to  the  Association  for its information a
report on these movements; (c) by June 30, 1989, and semi-annually
thereafter, furnish  to  the  Association  for  its  information a
report on grain flows, stocks  and  price trends; and (d) by Janu-
ary 1, 1989, inform the  Association of the final arrangements for
conducting the monitoring and  analysis  of  the set of indicators
agreed with the Association.
