Document of                              l       Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3356-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF US$10.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
November 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contets may not Otherwise be discsed witbout Weld Bank ntorizton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malian Franc (MF)
MF 1 million   = US$1,471
US$1            = MF 680
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACM     -  Association des Comptables du Mali
CAA     -  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements
CCP     -  Comptes Cheques Postaux
tEPI    -  Centre d'Etude et de Promotion Industrielle
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CMDT    -  Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpment des Textiles
CNRA    -  Commission Nationale pour la Reforme Administrative
COMATEX -  Compagnie Malienne de Textiles
DNAE    -  Direction Nationale des Affaires Economiques
DNFPP   -  Direction Nationale de la Fonction Publique et du Personnel
DNP     -  Direction Nationale de la Planification
DNSI    -  Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
DNUC    -  Direction Nationale de l'Urbanism et de la Construction
FAC     -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FED     -  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -  International Development Association
IER     -  Institut de l'Economic Rurale
ILO     -  International Labor Office (Geneva)
IPGP    -  Institut de Productivite et de Gestion Previsionnelle
ODR     -  Operation de Developpement Rural
OPAM    -  Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
OSRP    -  Office pour la Stabilisation et la Regularisation des Prix
PCU     -  Project Coordinating Unit
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
SEPOM   -  Societe d'Exploitation des Produits Oleagineux du Mali
SNED    -  Societe Nationale pour les Etudes de Developpement
SOMIEX  -  Societe Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
UNCTAD  -  United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WAMU    - West African Monetary Union
WFP     -  World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1      -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Mali
Amount:         SDR 9.7 million (US$10.4 million)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  The objective is to strengthen management of the Malian
economy by improving financial and economic policies and public
institutions and by training Malian civil servants. Assistance
would focus on: (i) cereals marketing; (ii) rural development
agencies; (iii) state enterprises; (iv) economic policy analysis
and data management; (v) the civil service bureau; (vi) the
public debt agency; and (vii) the business management training
institute. The project would also provide training and support
a Project Coordinating Unit to implement the project. The IDA
credit would finance specialists, equipment, operating costs,
studies, scholarships, and construction. The major benefit is
to reinforce the Government's commitment to improve economic
policies and institutions. The major risk is that the assis-
tance will not be effectively utilized owing to delays and to
unanticipated constraints. These risks will be partially
offset by strengthening implementation and supervision.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs (including taxes and duties of US$0.6 million)
Category                                    Local         Foreign    Total
--------- US$ millions ------
Cereals marketing                            0.27          0.62        0.89
Rural development agencies                   0.52          1.13        1.65
State enterprises                            0.45          0.97        1.42
Economic policy analysis
and data management                          0.46          0.76         1.22
Civil service (DNFPP)                        0.32          0.62        0.94
Public data management (CAA)                 0.07          0.13        0.20
Business management training (IPGP)          0.51          0.89        1.40
Follow-up technical assistance
and studies                                  0.21          0.59        0.80
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)              0.39          0.59        0.98
Base Costs                                   3.20          6.30        9.50
Physical contingencies                       0.13          0.47        0.60
Price contingencies                          0.47           0.93        1.40
Total Project Costs                          3.80          7.70       11.50
Financing Plan                             ----------US$ millions---------
IDA                                     2.7           7.7        10.4
Government                              1.1             -         1.1
TOTAL                                   3.8           7.7        11.5
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83 1/   FY84       FY85       FY86
Annual                           2.0        3.7        3.2        1.5
Cumulative                       2.0        5.7        8.9       10.4
1/   Includes US$1 million disbursed under PPF advances.    -



- iii -
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
Map: IBRD 16539






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 9.7 million (US$10.4 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Economic Manage-
ment and Training Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.
The following paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of
recent World Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives country data.
Introduction
3.        Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world.  Economic growth
has been reasonable since independence in 1960, although highly variable.
But economic management has encouraged consumption more than productive
investment, with the result that this growth was obtained at the cost of
increasing imbalances in public finances and on foreign accounts. By the end
of 1980, these imbalances were severe enough that the Malian Government began
to recognize deficiencies of past policies. It embarked on a cautious path
heading toward economic and financial restructuration, and IDA and the IMF
were asked to assist in this new effort. Nevertheless, growth in the near
future will be limited by poor physical resources and underdeveloped human
resources and infrastructure, although there is some potential for longterm
economic development.
Economic Resources and Constraints
4.        Mali has a population of 7 million inhabitants, in an area of 1.24
million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa. In 1981,
GNP per capita was only US$190. Mali manifests all the signs of a least
developed country, including a subsistence-oriented economy (85 percent of
the population depends on the primary sector), dependence on a few commodity
exports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings (minus 3.6 percent of GDP
in 1980), a high population growth rate (2.7 percent), a low level of educa-
tion (less than 10 percent adult literacy), and difficult living conditions
that give a life expectancy of only 43 years.
5.        Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as
inadequate infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in the short
and medium term. Potential for agricultural growth is limited by uncertain



- 2 -
rainfall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-yielding,
traditional crop and livestock technology with little scope for intensifica-
tion. Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to exploit.
Human resources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic amenities
like clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities remains
quite limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced
managers. Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by
world standards, because Mali is landlocked and internal distances are vast.
The above factors result in low incomes, small domestic markets, and limited
potential for industrial development. Finally, Mali is a small open economy,
with trade concentrated in a few commodities. Imports and exports together
amount to more than half of GDP. Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths
of exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus, the
country is extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining
terms of trade.
6.         Although economic development will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as well as the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hydroelectric generating potential
on the Niger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited, they may offer longer-term oppor-
tunities.
Economic Performance 1960-82
7.         The Malian Government has attempted since independence to promote
growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption from very
low levels. During 1960-81, annual growth of GNP per capita averaged 1.1
percent in constant prices, although there were large swings from a decline
in GNP in one year to jumps of over 10 percent in the next. The economic
structure has shifted as the agricultural sector has become less important
while the services sector has become more so. Although this tendency is
normal for developing economies, in Mali it also reflects the effect of
policies that have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public
consumption. At the same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite
government efforts to create a modern industrial base. Because of drought
and declining terms of trade, as well as continuing mistakes in economic
management and poor allocation of public resources, there have been since
independence consistently large and worsening imbalances in public finances
and on foreign accounts, with declining domestic savings and growing foreign
indebtedness. While economic and social objectives have been partially
achieved, the process has led to severe financial and economic disequilibria
that could be sustained only by dependence on foreign borrowing.
8.         Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
1967-74, 1974-80, and 1981-82) based roughly on changes in economic and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 9.7 million (US$10.4 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Economic Manage-
ment and Training Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.
The following paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of
recent World Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives country data.
Introduction
3.        Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world.  Economic growth
has been reasonable since independence in 1960, although highly variable.
But economic management has encouraged consumption more than productive
investment, with the result that this growth was obtained at the cost of
increasing imbalances in public finances and on foreign accounts. By the end
of 1980, these imbalances were severe enough that the Malian Government began
to recognize deficiencies of past policies. It embarked on a cautious path
heading toward economic and financial restructuration, and IDA and the IMF
were asked to assist in this new effort. Nevertheless, growth in the near
future will be limited by poor physical resources and underdeveloped human
resources and infrastructure, although there is some potential for longterm
economic development.
Economic Resources and Constraints
4.        Mali has a population of 7 million inhabitants, in an area of 1.24
million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa. In 1981,
GNP per capita was only US$190. Mali manifests all the signs of a least
developed country, including a subsistence-oriented economy (85 percent of
the population depends on the primary sector), dependence on a few commodity
exports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings (minus 3.6 percent of GDP
in 1980), a high population growth rate (2.7 percent), a low level of educa-
tion (less than 10 percent adult literacy), and difficult living conditions
that give a life expectancy of only 43 years.
5.        Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as
inadequate infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in the short
and medium term. Potential for agricultural growth is limited by uncertain



- 2 -
rainfall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-yielding,
traditional crop and livestock technology with little scope for intensifica-
tion. Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to exploit.
Human resources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic amenities
like clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities remains
quite limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced
managers. Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by
world standards, because Mali is landlocked and internal distances are vast.
The above factors result in low incomes, small domestic markets, and limited
potential for industrial development. Finally, Mali is a small open economy,
with trade concentrated in a few commodities. Imports and exports together
amount to more than half of GDP. Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths
of exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus, the
country is extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining
terms of trade.
6.        Although economic development will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as well as the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hydroelectric generating potential
on the Niger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited, they may offer longer-term oppor-
tunities.
Economic Performance 1960-82
7.        The Malian Government has attempted since independence to promote
growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption from very
low levels. During 1960-81, annual growth of GNP per capita averaged 1.1
percent in constant prices, although there were large swings from a decline
in GNP in one year to jumps of over 10 percent in the next. The economic
structure has shifted as the agricultural sector has become less important
while the services sector has become more so. Although this tendency is
normal for developing economies, in Mali it also reflects the effect of
policies that have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public
consumption. At the same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite
government efforts to create a modern industrial base. Because of drought
and declining terms of trade, as well as continuing mistakes in economic
management and poor allocation of public resources, there have been since
independence consistently large and worsening imbalances in public finances
and on foreign accounts, with declining domestic savings and growing foreign
indebtedness. While economic and social objectives have been partially
achieved, the process has led to severe financial and economic disequilibria
that could be sustained only by dependence on foreign borrowing.
8.        Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
1967-74, 1974-80, and 1981-82) based roughly on changes in economic and



- 3 -
political conditions. The changes in economic and financial structure during
these four periods are indicated in the following tabulation:l/
1960    1967    1974    1980    1981 2/
GDP (US$ millions, current)                273      241      414   1,325   1,119
Agriculture (percent GDP)                 55       50       35      42
Industry (percent GDP)                    10       13      16       10
Services (percent GDP)                    35       37      49       48
Terms of trade index                       100       73       58      64
Gross domestic savings (percent GDP)         9.5      1.3   -19.2    -3.6       -5.7
Budget deficit (percent GDP)                ..        5.3      3.5     4.0       2.3
Resource gap (percent GDP)                  -4      -16     -33      -20       -21
Net foreign assets (US$ millions)            2 3/  -56    -139    -249        -218
Longterm foreign debt (US$ millions)        ..      269      441     853
GNP growth rate (percent per year)4/        ..        3.5      1.8     6.8       0.2
These figures (as well as the economic indicators in Annex I) illustrate some
of the major trends in the Malian economy.
9.        Post-independence, 1960-67.  After independence, the first government
undertook a major program of modernization that included an independent
monetary system, an ambitious five-year development plan, a program of indus-
trialization based on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to
keep prices down and to assure consumers an adequate supply of basic commodi-
ties. During this period, GDP growth was high but public pricing and invest-
ment policies created imbalances that could not be sustained. Government
budgetary deficits often exceeded 5 percent of GDP. By 1967 the resource gap
had quadrupled (as a percent of GDP), net foreign assets had turned negative,
and the debt service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The economic crisis led
to the signature of monetary accords with France in early 1967, followed by a
50 percent devaluation in mid-1967, and to reintegration with the franc zone
in early 1968. At that time, the French Treasury opened an Operations
Account for Mali to provide overdraft facilities to support the convertibility
of the Mali franc.
10.       Economic Reform, the Sahelian Drought, and the Energy Crisis, 1967-74.
In late 1968, a new government launched an ambitious but pragmatic reform
program that proposed to increase official commodity prices and liberalize
private trade--especially in cereals. But the shock of the severe Sahelian
drought ('1968-73), followed by a quintupling of petroleum prices during
1/   The symbol ".." means "not available".
2/   Figures are provisional and subject to change.
3/   1962.
4/   At constant market prices in Malian francs.  Growth rate refers to
period preceeding year under which the figure is given.



1972-74, prevented the new government from carrying out the reforms. Economic
performance during 1967-74 was poor, reflecting these shocks. Output in the
primary sector fell, and real per capita income declined. Economic policies
remained inadequate. For example, low official prices discouraged agricultural
production and led to increased food imports; and recourse to bank credit to
finance the mounting losses of state enterprises led to increased external
debt. By 1974, the economic imbalances--already large 7 years earlier--had
either not improved or had deteriorated. The resource gap was larger,
reflecting partly the large inflow of foreign aid to sustain consumption
after the 1968-73 drought. Domestic dissaving was greater, net foreign
assets had fallen by over 100 percent, and public external debt more than
doubled.
11.       Uneven recovery, 1974-80.  Compared to the drought years, the
subsequent period was favored by generally better weather and more foreign
aid. There was more rapid growth of GDP, led by agriculture and reflecting
recovery from low drought levels. But the severe disequilibria in public
finances and external accounts created earlier were not corrected. Inflation
increased. Domestic dissavings and the resource gap remained high. The need
to finance increasingly large Government Treasury deficits and growing losses
in the state enterprises sector caused short-term foreign liabilities to
double. Borrowings to finance the 1974-78 development plan caused external
long-term public debt to double as well. Despite a few abortive efforts late
in the period, the Goverment did not develop and carry out reforms. While
continuing external shocks, like a second jump in petroleum prices, hampered
reform efforts, availability of substantial foreign resources also made the
imbalances more manageable and relieved some of the pressures to change
policies.
12.       New orientations, 1980-82.  Faced with worsening financial disequi-
libria but less central bank financing resulting from reduced access to the
Operations Account provided by France, the Malian Government at the end of
1980 requested technical and financial assistance from both the Bank and the
IMF to help it carry out a program of economic reform and adjustment.
Supported in part by technical assistance financed by an IDA PPF for the
proposed project approved in early 1981 (para. 28), the Government has started
to liberalize cereals marketing, reduce the role of the agricultural produce
marketing board, restructure the state enterprise sector and improve the
viability of key enterprises, and study how to restructure rural development
agencies. The government initiated several major fiscal improvements in
1981, despite difficult circumstances including poor rains in 1980 and a
further deterioration in the terms of trade. These measures include credit
restraint, improved tax collection, higher taxes on staple consumer goods and
petroleum, fewer subsidies to offset price increases, restraint on government
personnel costs, savings on maintenance of government material, reductions in
scholarships, and suspension of some education expenditures. Initial steps
have been taken to restructure the state enterprise sector and to improve the
medium-term viability of key enterprises. To improve incentives for agricultural
production, the government has substantially raised commodity prices for the
1981-82 season and increased official consumer prices for cereals. In May
1982, the IMF approved a one-year Standby Loan for SDR 30.375 million (about
US$33.9 million). The government has also formally asked to rejoin the West



-5-
African Monetary Union (WAMU), a move that would improve Mali's financial and
monetary position. Finally, the new Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social
Development for 1981-85 puts special emphasis on the need for policy reforms
to re-establish fundamental financial and economic equilibria, notably by
balancing the government budget, reducing the balance of payments deficit,
redticing the losses of the state enterprises, and controlling training and
recruitment for the Civil Service.
Development Policies
13.       1981-85 Development Plan.  The new plan continues to give priority
to water development for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to
agricultural and livestock production for achieving food self-sufficiency,
for supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially forests and pastures. These objectives seem to respond fairly
well to the major economic constraints facing the country. The new Plan
clearly accepts the coexistence of the public, mixed, and private sectors,
and it seeks -o increase local private participation in investments.
14.       Development expenditures proposed by the new Plan are estimated at
US$2.2 billion (in 1981 prices and exchange rates), of which US$1.7 billion
would be required during the five-year planning period. Roughly 70 percent
would finance actual capital investments, the rest being for supporting
expenditures. Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent
of the financing. Compared to the previous planning period (1974-80), the
implied annual investment level appears to be 50 greater. Judging from past
experience implementation of the Plan may encounter delays and difficulties
in project preparation and execution, partly because the link to budgeting is
weak.
15.       Foreign Aid.  Foreign aid finances practically all public investment
in Mali and is therefore critical for promoting future growth. More than half
of this aid is in the form of grants, and almost all the rest is loaned on
highly concessional terms by official aid agencies. Multilateral agencies
provide about two-fifths of long-term loans. IDA is by far the largest
multilateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
21 percent of total debt committed and outstanding. Long-term external
public debt (about three-fourths of which is disbursed) has increased substan-
tially over the last 10 years, although debt levels per capita and as a share
of GDP have declined, reflecting the increase in official grant aid and
growing recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the Operations Account.
Actual debt service payments on long-term debt have been modest, amounting to
US$11.1 million in 1980, or only 4.1 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services. This ratio is lower than in the late 1960s and the early 1970s,
and has been made possible by rescheduling some debts and by converting
some loans into grants. However, the debt-service ratio could rise signifi-
cantly in the future unless rescheduling is extended or further conversion
occurs, which seems probable.



- 6 -
16.       Sustained and viable growth of Mali's economy in the longer run
depends crucially on policy reforms and investments that will strengthen the
economy. As noted, the Government has recently taken some initial steps in
this direction, including changes in certain economic policies, improvements
in public finances, and a new emphasis on policies in the 1981-85 Plan.
The Government's actions indicate a new commitment to economic reform--
including more reliance on the private sector--and warrant cautious optimism
that reforms will be carried out. However, while these are positive signs,
it is still too early to judge if the measures can be sustained. Similar
efforts have been initiated in the past but postponed because drought,
world inflation, structural constraints and poverty leave the country little
margin for maneuver. Continued progress in these directions will be difficult
because policy reforms will take time and needed investments will require
increased resources. Regarding policies, existing patterns of high domestic
consumption--both public and private--will have to be switched carefully to
avoid undue hardship on an already poor population. Regarding investments,
Mali's financing capacity for initial expenditures and recurrent costs is
severely constrained by both the legacy of high spending levels and the
limited savings potential when per capita income is extremely low. IDA can
assist in designing and implementing policies and can help finance sound
productive investment, including a high level of recurrent, local-cost
financing to reduce delays in project implementation.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
17.       The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-seventh credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$248.3 million equivalent. Of the twenty-
six operations already approved, ten have been for agriculture, eight for
transport, two for education, two for telecommunications, one each for small-
scale industries, urban development, petroleum exploration promotion, and
power and water supply. Transportation and agriculture represent the largest
share of past commitments, with 26 and 33 percent respectively of total
commitments. The experience with ongoing operations has been mixed. The
Mali-Sud area development project (cotton) is doing reasonably well while the
other agricultural projects have experienced considerable difficulty. Highway
reconstruction and improvement has been successful while highway maintenance
has lagged. Implementation has gone fairly smoothly in the urban project,
though somewhat behind schedule in the railway and education projects. Con-
siderable delays have been experienced in the small-scale enterprise project.
In general, project implementation has been hampered by Mali's difficult
public finance situation, although the disbursement profile for Mali is
slightly more rapid than for both the West Africa Region and all IDA countries.
In addition, the International Finance Corporation has made two investments
for a total of US$3.2 million, in a company manufacturing bleach and plastic
products, and in a company processing sheanut butter for export. Notes on the
execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
18.       The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by the constraints
and potentials set out in Part I. The principal objectives of Bank Group
assistance are to help improve the country's economic policies, to finance



- 7 -
productive investments, and to help develop institutions to implement policies
and projects effectively. Regarding policies, the strategy is to encourage
those that promote economic growth, redress the financial imbalances of the
public sector, and correct the biases of expenditures now favoring urban
areas. Regarding investments, the strategy gives priority to those that will
help increase agricultural production, meet the needs of the rural population
in terms of health, literacy and rural infrastructure, and provide an adequate
transport and communications network. The scope and pace of IDA's program
depends on an on-going assessment of the country's economic management,
particularly upon the willingness and ability of the government to address
policy issues and undertake reforms where they are needed. The current IDA
lending program for Mali contains projects with objectives closely related to
policy and institutional reform. IDA has attempted to maintain a dialogue
with the government on policy issues and to encourage it to undertake reforms
that strengthen economic management. In turn, the responsiveness of the
government in this policy dialogue determines not only the pace at which
these projects are going to be carried out but ultimately the scope of the
IDA assistance.
19.       The future IDA lending program for Mali is expected to increase
from US$28.2 million per year during FY80-82, reflecting the positive but
cautious assessment of the Government's improved economic management per-
formance described in Part I (paras. 12 and 16). In the agricultural sector,
major focus will be on pricing and institutional issues. Future lending in
the road transport sector would address the problem of generating and alloca-
ting adequate recurrent cost financing. Projects are also being prepared for
rural health and water, with Board presentation scheduled for October 1983.
A proposed project for gasohol production scheduled for Board presentation in
February 1983, would aim at alleviating Mali's dependence on imported energy.
PART III - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN MALI
20.       In the past, the Malian Government has been understandably cautious
about relying too heavily on expensive expatriate technical assistance, but
it recognizes its value in helping solve problems of internal management
and efficiency in specific agencies, enterprises, and projects. It also
values highly assistance for training and studies. But the Government does
not have a well-formulated national strategy to direct the use of technical
assistance, nor is there a specific Government agency to coordinate that
provided by different donors. Despite the fragmented and often ad hoc nature
of past technical assistance, it has provided useful support to public agencies
for implementing projects and has contributed to running ministries and
occasionally to making specific policy reforms. Of course, there have been
the usual implementation problems, like difficulties in recruiting capable
specialists and shortages of qualified local staff to be cQunterparts. The
Government is also increasingly concerned that training and studies be as
operationally relevant as possible. Annex IV describes the major programs
of technical assistance to Mali over the last decade.



- 8 -
21.       Most previous technical assistance has not focused on economic and
financial policy analysis and reform, in part because the Malian Government
did not sufficiently recognize the need for it and in part because there was
no overall program of reform into which it could be placed. However, in the
face of continuing financial and economic deterioration, the Malian govern-
ment formally requested technical and financial assistance from both IDA and
the IMF at the end of 1980 to help carry out a program of economic reform and
structural adjustment. This request indicates a significant change in attitude
of the Malian Government, which is coming to recognize that economic restruc-
turing and improved public financial management must be part of any lasting
solution to the country's economic problems. Now that the Government is open
to a deeper economic dialogue with IDA, technical assistance is needed to
help elaborate policy options, as well as to enhance Mali's institutional
capacity to devise and carry out reforms. This technical assistance is thus a
necessary first step leading to formulation of a structural adjustment program.
The Government is especially receptive to this assistance, even in key
central agencies, as the need for policy reform has become more apparent.
22.       The proposed technical assistance credit would be a valuable adjunct
to the recently approved IMF Standby Loan (para. 12). The IMF and IDA have
collaborated closely on the economic dialogue with the Malian Government. The
specialists and studies under this project would help devise and carry out
policies included in the adjustment program of the Standby, especially for
cereals marketing and state enterprises. The Standby program complements the
proposed project in that the IMF's ongoing discussions with the Ministry of
Finance would provide an occasion to pursue public finance recommendations
developed by the project.
23.       The proposed project has been designed to build on and to complement
the technical assistance provided by other donors while avoiding duplication.
Basically, it would aim to help develop a cohesive program of economic reform
and would provide assistance to support policy analysis at the sectoral
level instead of simply focusing on the operation of specific institutions and
projects, which are often covered by other technical assistance. Where opera-
tional problems threaten to impede effective implementation of sectoral
reforms, however, it would strengthen relevant institutions by supplementing
or prolonging existing technical assistance and training provided by other
donors.
24.       Because there is no master plan or coordinator for technical assis-
tance in Mali, it was necessary to discuss extensively with other donors
during preparation of this project the scope and content of existing and
planned technical assistance and training, in an attempt to identify major
gaps in technical assistance and training required for strengthening manage-
ment of the Malian economy and improving relevant government institutions. In
this process, proposed IDA assistance was then tailored to fill these gaps
left by other donors. The discussion of each component in Part IV gives
examples of this iterative, informal procedure of coordination.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
25.       The project responds to a Government request in late 1980 for
assistance in designing and carrying out a program of economic and financial
structural adjustment (para. 12). An advance of US$1 million was extended
through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to prepare and start imple-
menting the project (para. 28). Appraisal took place in April-May 1982.
Negotiations were held in October 1982 in Washington with a Government delega-
tion led by the Minister of Plan. A credit and project summary is given at
the beginning of this report. No Staff Appraisal Report is being issued.
A supplementary project data sheet is at Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
26.       This project would help strengthen management of the Malian economy
by helping identify improved public financial and economic policies, by
helping improve government institutions to elaborate and implement reforms,
and by training Malian civil servants to make the improved institutions
function better. Its long-term objective would be to improve the Government's
administrative capacity to plan and implement better economic policies. The
project would provide training, major diagnostic studies of rural development
agencies and the state enterprises sector to lay the groundwork for reforms
and subsequent technical assistance in these areas, specialists and supple-
mental supporting studies to analyze, recommend and help implement policies, a
limited amount of construction, equipment, and operating support, and prepara-
tion of a second phase project. The assistance would amount to about 425 work
months of specialists--including the PPF phase--and the equivalent of about
380 months of overseas fellowships (although much of the training would, in
fact, occur in-country). The table below sets out the seven components as
well as follow-up and implementation support for this project, together with
estimated costs and main objectives of each.



- 10 -
Total Estimated      Of Which
Component                   Cost 1/      Training Support   Main Objective
-_…_______(US$ million) …-------
Cereals marketing             0.89              0.06       policy analysis
Rural development              1.65             0.18       policy analysis
agencies
State enterprises             1.42             0.18        policy analysis
Economic policy analysis       1.22             0.27       policy analysis and
and data management                                      institutional improvement
(a)  Policy analysis
(DNP)                 (0.41)           (0.90)
(b)  Statistics (DNSI)    (0.56)            (0.90)
(c)  Data-processing
(DNSI)                (0.25)           (0.90)
Civil service (DNFPP)         0.94             0.18        institutional improvement
Public debt management        0.20              0.09       institutional improvement
(CAA)
Business management           1.40              1.41       institutional improvement
training (IPGP)                                          and training
Follow-up technical           0.80               -         policy analysis, institu-
assistance and studies                                   tional improvement, and
training
Project Coordinating          0.98               -         project implementation
Unit (PCU)
Total base costs              9.50              2.36
Annexes V and VI give functional breakdowns of costs for each of these com-
ponents by type of expenditure and source of financing.
27.       In choosing components for this project, the main criterion was that
each contribute to the overall objective of improving economic policies and
strengthening related institutions. In addition, there had to be sufficient
evidence that the Government is committed to make reforms and that IDA assis-
tance would both support this commitment and fit into or build on other
1/   Excluding contingencies but including PPF.



- 11 -
programs of technical assistance and training. For cereals marketing and the
state enterprises sector, the assistance would support high-priority policy
reforms that have already started. For the rural development agencies, the
assistance would help initiate critical policy reforms. Assistance for
economic policy analysis and data management would strengthen functions needed
to support an economic reform program. Other components (civil service and
public debt agency) were specifically requested by the Government and included
because the institutions involved can play important roles in carrying out
economic reforms. Finally, because of the importance of training to long-term
institutional development, the training support component (IPGP) was carried
over from the Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI) and special training
programs are envisaged for each component.
28.       Project Preparation Facility.  Assistance in five areas has already
begun through an advance under the PPF (P-146), the first tranche of which
was approved in February 1981 for US$500,000 and the second in April 1982 for
another US$500,000. In the case of the first three components, the advance
was used to respond as rapidly as possible to the Government's request for
technical assistance. For cereals marketing reform, where the advance is
financing two specialists hired in June 1981, the consultants have helped the
Government implement a reform program adopted in early 1981. Progress has
been largely satisfactory (see para. 31). The diagnostic studies of rural
development agencies and state enterprises, which were begun in early 1982
and scheduled for completion by early 1983, are prerequisites for devising
reform programs that correspond to adjustments called for by the IMF Standby.
Starting in June 1982, tne advance has also financed a short-term consultant
to examine the needs of the civil service office for institutional support,
office equipment, and training and to establish terms of reference and equip-
ment specifications. Finally, the advance has been used to finance the
Project Coordinating Unit, which was set up in the Ministry of Plan in August
1981 and has facilitated project preparation and implementation. Items
financed by advances from the PPF are indicated in Annex V.
Project Components, Follow-up Support, and Training.
29.       Cereals Marketing.  The history of cereals marketing in Mali is one
of halting efforts to reform the Malian Agricultural Marketing Board (OPAM),
which was created with full monopoly over grains marketing and trade in 1965.
The new Government in 1968 planned to decontrol the sector, but the 1968-73
drought interrupted these efforts; instead, OPAM was increasingly called on
to distribute food-aid, import cereals, and transfer domestic production to
deficit areas. However, during the mid-1970s, official prices increasingly
fell below private market prices; as a result OPAM purchases and sales fell
while its financial losses and bank debt mounted. Imports and food-aid
increased, despite larger domestic harvests. In 1978, an FAO report recom-
mended higher producer prices and smaller consumer subsidies and suggested
that income from food-aid sales be used to cushion the financial impact of
these adjustments for OPAM. Finally, in the face of stricter limits on bank
credit and fewer public funds for subsidies, the Government decided at the
end of 1980 to reform public cereals marketing. An informal consortium of
food-aid donors agreed to help implement the reform, broadly along the lines



- 12 -
of the FAO report, by providing 250,000 tons of coarse grains over five
years, revenues from which would provide bridge financing for OPAM while the
reforms are carried out.
30.       Details of the reform program and guidelines to quantify progress
were neither clearly laid out nor explicitly adopted. However, the major
goals of this reform appear to be: to decontrol cereals trade, creating a
more favorable climate for private merchants; to reduce price distortions by
aligning official prices more closely with actual costs and world prices; to
reduce subsidies in the official price structure over five years; and to
limit OPAM's role to supporting private commerce, stabilizing market prices,
and managing public stocks. The new State Ministry of Plan and Economy, as
the supervisory ministry of OPAM and the ministry that takes the lead in
establishing price and commercial policies, is now in charge of implementing
the reform program. These adjustments are also part of the IMF Standby
program.
31.       After the first year, progress has been made, especially given
Mali's history of state control over cereals marketing. Official prices
were increased; the public marketing monopoly for coarse grains was abolished;
OPAM was assigned a more limited role; and measures have been drawn up to
reduce OPAM's operating costs. These actions are a beginning, but lasting
results still have to be demonstrated.
32.       Many problem areas also remain. For example, private trade in paddy
remains illegal. Official prices for coarse grains currently do not allow
adequate operating margins, yet merchants are expected to use only official
prices. Official consumer prices are well below market levels and not
allowed to vary according to season and location. Official producer prices
are also set with insufficient regard to market conditions and not allowed to
vary during the year or in different areas. The administrative procedures
for setting official prices are cumbersome, which limits flexibility in
adjusting official prices as market conditions change. Finally, proposed
cost-reduction measures for OPAM have not yet been sufficiently implemented
to reduce its gross operating losses to levels sustainable without recourse
to scarce public budget funds.
33.       The cereals marketing sector--and especially OPAM--already benefits
from much technical assistance. Bilateral donors (France, Germany, and the
United Kingdom) have together funded about five work-years annually to assist
OPAM in managing and protecting grain stocks and in accounting and commercial
operations. USAID and FAO are currently providing some training, and Canada
may join them. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
will help support private grains marketing through its technical assistance
(four work-years) to the National Directorate for Economic Affairs (DNAE),
a price regulatory body in the Ministry of Finance, and to the Chamber of
Commerce. Finally, the World Food Program (WFP) has provided a coordinator
for the food-aid donors supporting the recent reforms. However, past and
existing technical assistance has been narrowly directed at specific activi-
ties, like grain stocks and protection, rather than aimed at sector-wide
problems and the overall operation of OPAM. Assistance under this proposed



- 13 -
project covers areas not adequately addressed by other donors--especially
price and financial policies now under the purview of the State Ministry of
Plan and Economy, as well as OPAM's overall commercial operations. The two
specialists hired under the PPF are part of the team of three experts, for
which joint terms of reference were written collaboratively in early 1981 by
several major donors, including IDA, the FAC, CCCE, FED, Germany, WFP, U.K.,
Canada and USAID. IDA is financing the policy and commercial specialists,
while FAC is financing the accountant. The training initially proposed
in this area has been scaled down after recent approval of FAO, USAID, and
Canadian training support.
34.       The task ahead is to support the reform program with technical
advice and continued efforts to encourage necessary actions.  The proposed
technical assistance would provide six work-years of specialists primarily
to advise on and assist in implementing reforms of public cereals marketing
policies, with special emphasis on price policy changes, and to help reorient
OPAM by limiting its role more to support functions for private merchants and
by assisting it to operate more effectively. It would also assist the private
sector to operate more efficiently through training and small studies (paras.
54 and 56).
35.       Under PPF financing, four work-years have already been committed,
divided between the Ministry of Finance, to analyze price and commercial
policies, and OPAM, to help restructure the agency. This assistance has
played a significant role in helping the government implement reforms during
the first year (see para. 31). Terms of reference for the remaining two
work-years would be submitted to IDA on or before 31 March 1983 (DCA Section
3.10). Both the terms of reference and eventual choice of consultants would
have to be acceptable to IDA. The terms of reference would be based on
results of preceeding work, and it is envisaged that they would focus more on
price policy and aid to the private sector than on assistance to OPAM.
36.       Rural Development Agencies (ODRs).  Most of the ODRs were created
in the first half of the 1970s to make agricultural development activities
more autonomous relative to the Civil Service and Government in general, to
provide a better channel for foreign aid to the rural sector, to manage public
infrastructure in the agricultural sector, and to provide extension services,
modern inputs, equipment, and credit to farmers. The goal was to create state
agencies with financial and managerial autonomy that would put into place the
necessary structures for agricultural development. Twenty-nine ODRs currently
exist, including the cotton development agency (CMDT) and the Office du Niger,
which are more autonomous than others. Virtually all of these ODRs are
supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development or the Ministry of Agriculture.
Most of their activities focus on agricultural extension and primary marketing,
for both food and industrial crops. But their work often includes social
actions as well, like functional literacy and village water supply. Their
financing depends largely on the official cost schedules (baremes) for recur-
rent operating costs, on the Government Treasury for Civil Service wages, on
special Government funds and on foreign aid. By 1977-78, it had become
increasingly evident that the model of autonomous agencies was not working.



- 14 -
Financial operating losses mounted to a level that neither the ODRs nor the
Government budget could finance. Both production and official marketings of
important crops stagnated or declined, exacerbating financial difficulties.
Technical assistance to rural development agencies has been almost solely
channeled through investment projects and has focused on internal operational
problems of individual agencies.
37.       In 1981, the Government requested IDA financing for a diagnostic
study to find a way to reduce the growing deficits. This study is being
financed by an advance from the PPF (para. 28), under the supervision of the
Ministries of Agriculture and of Rural Development and the Project Coordinating
Unit. The study started in early 1982 and the first draft was submitted in
August 1982. It aims to analyze policies and institutions in the sector and
to recommend changes to improve financial performance. In contrast to past
technical assistance, that to be provided by the proposed project would be
the first to emphasize sector-wide reforms. The results of the diagnostic
study will be discussed with the Government. The proposed subsequent technical
assistance--financed by this project--to help rehabilitate the ODR sector
would provide the equivalent of five work-years of specialists for the appro-
priate agricultural sector agencies. Terms of reference would be submitted to
IDA on or before 30 June 1983 (DCA Section 3.05). Both the terms of reference
and eventual choice of consultants would have to be acceptable to IDA. The
project would also finance training and small follow-up studies (paras. 54
and 56).
38.       State Enterprises.  There are now 25 state enterprises in Mali, both
wholly public and mixed, dominating the modern industrial sector and also
operating in commerce, public works, transportation, and services. Most of
these ventures were started between 1960 and 1970 with the objectives to com-
pensate for shortages of private capital, to increase local value added of
agricultural products, to substitute for imported products and to assure nation-
wide distribution of essential consumer goods at fair and stable prices. By
1966, state enterprises controlled over 70 percent of gross sales in the modern
sector. They are supervised by the Ministry of State Enterprises, which was
created in 1974. These state enterprises are nominally quite important, employ-
ing over 13,000 workers (about one-fifth of civilian public sector employees)
and accounting for almost one-half of recorded exports and about one-fourth of
Government budgetary receipts. Financial and economic results, however, have
been disappointing, and operating losses have mushroomed despite various
corrective measures proposed by the Government since the mid-1970s.
39.       In the face of these difficulties and severe constraints on the use
of Central Bank credit to finance recurrent losses, the Government decided in
early 1980 on the following reorientation for the sector: to re-establish and
maintain the financial equilibrium of the major strategic enterprises by improv-
ing their internal management, financial structure, and capital reserves; to
open six selected state enterprises to private capital participation and to
close two others; to increase trade protection; and to make certain invest-
ments.



- 15 -
40.       Technical assistance to state enterprises has been mostly directed at
individual enterprises, like the state import-export company (SOMIEX), and
financed by various bilateral donors. As such it has focused more on problems
of internal management and efficiency than on external constraints, like poor
industrial policies. Measures or studies are already being undertaken for
SOMIEX, the Malian Textile Company (COMATEX), AIR-MALI, and the Malian Oil Pro-
ducts Company (SEPOM). For example, proposed and realized SOMIEX reforms,
developed with French technical assistance, so far include: raising the sale
prices of staple goods by 10-30 percent, reducing the product line from several
hundred goods to only seven, closing half its shops or offering to sell them to
private shopkeepers, selling large trucks to private transporters, divesting
itself of its supermarket, and setting up separate accounts for imports and
exports. But these initial measures must be maintained, and further reforms
will be needed if financial equilibrium in this sector is to be achieved.
41.       A short-term diagnostic study of the internal and external con-
straints in the state enterprises sector has been funded by an advance from
the PPF (para. 28). This study, started in April 1982 under the supervision
of the Ministry of State Enterprises and scheduled to be finished by early
1983, is to propose specific policy reforms to make the state enterprise
sector more profitable. In contrast to most past technical assistance, that
to be provided by the proposed project would be the first to emphasize sector-
wide reforms. The results of the diagnostic study will be discussed with the
Government. The proposed subsequent technical assistance--financed by this
project--to help rehabilitate the state enterprises sector would provide the
equivalent of five work-years of specialists for the Ministry of State Enter-
prises. Terms of reference would be submitted to IDA on or before 30 June
1983 (DCA Section 3.05). Both the terms of reference and eventual choice of
consultants would have to be acceptable to IDA. The Project would also
finance training and small follow-up studies (paras. 54 and 56).
42.       Economic policy analysis and data management.  The current institu-
tional structure for planning in Mali was established in 1969. It consists of
a hierarchy of governmental committees, which are supposed to establish the
planning orientations and approve the Development Plan, and a Ministry of Plan
which is the technical'agency in charge of actually writing and executing the
Development Plan. At the top of the hierarchy is the Planning Council, which
is under the President and has the power to approve the final plan document.
The plan document itself is prepared by the Ministry of Plan under the guidance
of the intergovernmental Management Commission, headed by the Minister of
Plan, with input from several national and regional Planning Committees that
are supported by the Ministry of Plan. The Ministry of Plan contains two
national directorates--the National Planning Office (DNP) and the National
Statistical and Data Processing Office (DNSI), each with five divisions--
and seven regional directorates that have planning and statistical functions.
The major responsibilities of the Ministry of Plan include: for the DNP,
studying, programming and obtaining financing for development projects;
monitoring project execution and proposing needed revisions; controlling the
investment budget; estimating national accounts and macro-economic trends and
proposing needed changes in economic policies; and for the DNSI, conducting
statistical surveys and providing data processing services. In July 1982, a



- 16 -
State Ministry of Economy and Plan was also created to strengthen the policy
orientation of the existing planning ministry, which has more of a technical
orientation. Assistance to the Ministry of Plan has been largely provided by
France, the UNDP, and--more recently--the European Development Fund (FED).
The UNDP has approved a major project to strengthen regional and central
planning capacity, as well as training. The UNDP project would focus on
regional institutions, with some assistance at the national level to strengthen
project execution and monitoring and the quality of national accounts. The
proposed IDA planning assistance would focus on national institutions to
strengthen economic and financial policy analysis, to improve economic data,
and to help the computer center function better. In preparing the component,
the UNDP project documents were studied carefully, and the proposed IDA
assistance was discussed with UNDP officials, who reviewed the final design.
A joint project was not considered appropriate owing to differences in timing
and focus.  Potential overlaps would be resolved by ongoing collaboration in
preparing terms of reference for specialists to be hired.
43.       The proposed component would provide assistance for three tasks:
(i) analyzing financial and economic policies--including investment priorities
(US$0.41 million); (ii) improving national production and price statistics
(US$0.56 million); and (iii) reviewing data-processing systems (US$0.25
million).  The first task--financial and economic policy analysis--is necessary
for improving economic management. The Economic and Social Division of the
DNP is in principle responsible for carrying out this analysis, but its other
activities--including work on the Development Plan--take precedence. Sometimes
ad hoc policy analysis is done by the Central Bank, the Ministrv of Finance,
and the Presidency, but there appears to be no unit in the Malian Government
capable of sustained policy work. Therefore this proposed subcomponent would
finance about two work-years of technical assistance services to assist the
DNP in evaluating current and proposed financial and economic policies. Terms
of reference for the policy analysis advisor would be submitted to IDA on or
before 30 June 1983 (DCA Section 3.07). Both the terms of reference and
eventual choice of consultant would have to be acceptable to IDA. By strength-
ening the DNP, the project would seek to involve more government officials in
policy analysis and to provide them with tools to do it:. It would also
provide training (para. 56).
44.       The second subcomponent--improving national statistics--addresses
the poor quality of economic data in Mali, which is increasingly seen as a
real constraint to improving econiomic analysis and designing reform programs.
It would provide assistance to the Statistical Directorate (DNSI) of the
Ministry of Plan to help it improve and expand data collection, analysis, and
publication in the areas of production, prices, employment and other economic
statistics.  Although the DNSI has the mandate to furnish national statistics,
its current operations have several deficiencies. For example, the agricul-
tural survey is incomplete, published several years lat:e and suffers from
inadequate equipment. Market prices are formally collected and published
only for Bamako. As currently envisaged, the subcomponent would finance:
(i) one work-year of specialists to improve sampling design and data collec-
tion systems; (ii) replacement of worn-out equipment plus operating costs;
and (iii) training. Similar assistance has been discussed for several years



- 17 -
with other donors, like the UNDP, but funding has never been available. The
FAO has also-been discussing assistance to the Rural Economy Institute (IER),
the research unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, to strengthen its capacity
to furnish agricultural statistics. This or similar assistance, if eventually
funded, would be a valuable complement to the broader program of statistical
support proposed for the Ministry of Plan under this project. In any case,
the specialists financed by this project would be expected to collaborate with
the Ministries of Rural Development and of Agriculture--including IER--on
issues dealing with agricultural statistics.
45.       The third subcomponent would help the Ministry of Plan strengthen its
data-processing operations. FAC has recently provided the government with an
evaluation of the future demand for data processing services furnished by the
Ministry of Plan, as well as the organization, manpower, and computer software
and hardware needed to satisfy this demand. Unfortunately, the French-funded
position to support computer operations is being phased out. Thus, additional
technical assistance and training are needed to design and implement a viable
system for processing public data, which would include a management information
system. This assistance is a high priority for the Government. It would
contribute to the objectives of the project by linking institutional reform to
improved information systems and technologies and by improving the management
of public agencies and the scope and timeliness of economic data. This
assistance would include short-term specialists (12 work-months in total) to
advise on: (i) national data-processing policies--including hardware and
software standardization and training for data-processing personnel; (ii)
institutional aspects affecting the efficiency of government data-processing
facilities; and (iii) a master plan to implement the recommendations. The
project would also finance training in the same field.
46.       Civil Service.  The current National Office of the Civil Service and
of Personnel (DNFPP) was organized in 1978 as one of two directorates in the
Ministry of Labor and Civil Service. Its mandate is to provide the personnel
management of Government employees in the central ministries and in regional
and local administrative offices, although the power to hire remains with the
employing agency and the Ministry of Finance. The DNFPP has a staff of 70 to
carry out its mandate, and it has received technical assistance through the
National Commission on Administrative Reform (CNRA). 1/ Because of its
central position, this directorate has the potential to play a key role in
helping the Government control recruitment and limit expenditure on personnel.
The potential is far from realized, but progress has been made. For example,
the CNRA has been compiling a computerized roster of civil servants. The
initial work is mostly finished, and the roster has already been used to
determine the state of promotions and retirements and to estimate the fiscal
effects of recent changes in the income tax. But corrections are needed, and
an institutional procedure to link the Civil Service Office with employing
ministries is needed to assure continual updating of the roster. The UNDP has
provided over 60 work-years of technical assistance over the last decade to
help the Government improve its personnel structure and manage its employees.
1/   The CNRA was set up in 1969 and is now being integrated permanently into
the Ministry of Labor.



- 18 -
47.       Technical assistance under the proposed project has been developed
in close collaboration with existing programs. Officials in the CNRA, includ-
ing the UNDP team supporting it, were largely responsible for designing this
component, based on their knowledge of existing needs and available technical
assistance. The component was thus carefully tailored to extend and comple-
ment other activities. It would be a minor but critical addition because it
provides the necessary organizational analysis, training, and equipment to
implement the program of employment monitoring and salary control--a prere-
quisite to curbing government personnel expenditures--that has been developed
by past technical assistance.  This assistance would continue to build a
functioning management information system within the DNFPP to manage Govern-
ment employees ard monitor the effects of Government employment policies;
it is a crucial first step toward controlling personnel costs. It would
provide specialist services (3 work-years) to implement the system effectively,
substantial training (para. 56), and office and information-processing equip-
ment needed to facilitate personnel management. Initial consultancy work was
begun in June 1982 under PPF financing to define the subsequent assistance to
be provided by the proposed project.
48.       Public Debt Management.  The public debt management agency (CAA),
created in 1971 under the Ministry of Finance, has responsibility to manage
and service the external public debt of Mali. The agency is composed of
four divisions with about 40 employees in total. Funds to service the debt
come principally from the Tax on Special Services on imports and exports
(Contribution pour Services Particuliers Rendus, or CPS). In most years, the
net financial resources of the CAA are positive, although problems in meeting
debt-servicing schedules sometimes arise because of cash-flow problems created
by an uneven scheduling of service payments and by the illiquidity of the
postal checking system (CCP)--a problem which the recently approved IMF
Standby Loan may help resolve by enabling the Treasury to repay some of its
borrowings from the CCP. In addition, there are managerial and institutional
weaknesses in keeping track of required payments. Existing technical assis-
tance is limited to one financial expert funded by FAC, a post currently
vacant.
49.       In early 1982, the Government increased the authority of the CAA
to monitor all external public debt. To support this, as well as its recently
improved accounting system (implemented by French technical assistance), the
CAA has requested assistance to retrain some of its employees and to install
better accounting machines. There is also a need to strengthen and routinize
the institutional procedures by which the CAA receives debt information from
the Ministries who contract it. The assistance under the proposed project
would thus provide to the CAA: a short-term specialist (6 work-months) to
examine the information network among donors, CAA, and agencies contracting
debt and to propose improvements in debt management and record-keeping;
training (para. 56); and office accounting equipment and supplies. This
assistance would complement and extend that given by other donors.
50.       Business Management Institute (IPGP).  The IPGP was set up in 1971
under the Ministry of Education to teach business management and administra-
tion and to provide consulting services to state enterprises and various



- 19 -
autonomous government agencies, like ODRs. In 1981, the institute was shifted
to the Ministry of State Enterprises, a move that should strengthen its
orientation to provide practical training tailored to specific needs in Mali.
The government pays the salaries of the staff (24 professionals) as well as
scholarships for training courses. The other operating costs of the institute
must be financed through consulting contracts with state enterprises, govern-
ment agencies, and private firms. The Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI)
provided in part funds for a training facility with spaces for 90 full-time
and 400-500 part-time students, as well as technical assistance to strengthen
training programs. Owing to delays in selecting a suitable site and cost
overruns on other components, the new facility and associated technical assis-
tance can no longer be financed under that project. Past technical assistance
to IPGP has been furnished largely by the UNDP over the last decade, providing
both training for staff and specialists to teach, develop curricula, and carry
out studies of state enterprises. The Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI)
and the Industrial Sector Development Project (Cr. 986-MLI) also financed 6
work-years of specialists for curriculum development and teaching.
51.       The IPGP component would be expected to provide much of the training
finanlced by the project as well as some of the technical assistance needed to
help implement reforms. For example, it has already been hired to participate
in the diagnostic study of the state enterprise sector. To carry out this
role, the institute would be reorganized under the project to provide 4
services: practical training, consisting of several modular, 10-week courses
in business management; specific short courses to refresh and upgrade skills
of employees; consulting services to state enterprises, rural development
agencies, and private industrial and commercial companies; and documentation
and data processing. The proposed project would provide 36 work-months
of specialists to the IPGP to help implement the reorganization, to develop
the new curricula, and to strengthen the consulting services. The proposed
project would also finance substantial training for IPGP staff to improve
their teaching skills (para. 56). Terms of reference for this assistance
would be written in close collaboration with existing programs of technical
assistance provided by IDA and the UNDP.
52.       The proposed project would also finance the construction of the
new facility, which is a prerequisite for putting the new training program in
place.  This facility, together with necessary equipment, is estimated to
cost about US$750,000; construction would be implemented in collaboration with
the project office established under the Second Education Project (Cr. 733-MLI),
the National Directorate of Urbanism and Construction (DNUC), and the Ministry
of State Enterprises. Because of the importance of the facility, as well as
the institute's reorganization, the IPGP must adopt a reorganization plan
acceptable to IDA, and fill staff vacancies, including a director and a
qualified administrative and financial officer, before the funds for this
component can be disbursed (DCA Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)).
53.       The Government will maintain acceptable staff, including the director
and qualified administrative and financial officer, in all positions during
the project and will pay any operating deficits of IPGP (DCA Section 3.06).
Although it is hoped that IPGP will provide as much in-country training as
possible for the other components of the proposed project (with a corresponding



- 20 -
reallocation of funds), the training programs under these components could be
independent of IPGP if necessary, which means that delays or difficulties with
this component will not jeopardize others.
54.       Follow-up technical assistance and studies.  This component would
provide funds that can be used for additional specialists and studies that
may be needed to follow up on actions recommended under the project. Studies
in at least four areas are likely to be considered. These include: small
descriptive studies of prices, practices and attitudes of private grain
merchants; studies of specific issues not sufficiently covered by the
diagnostic studies of rural development agencies and the state enterprises
sector; and a study to prepare a second-phase technical assistance and
training project, if warranted. In addition to financing studies, these
funds can also be used to hire short-term specialists to give advice on
well-defined tasks. In all cases, terms of reference of specialists and
studies would have to be acceptable to IDA.
55.       Training.  Training is an important element of this project because
it will help assure that the recommendations and reforms developed by spe-
cialists are carried out and sustained. Accordingly, when the cost of the
IPGP component is added to the value of funds for training and fellowships,
training amounts to US$2.4 million, or about one-quarter of total project
costs before contingencies. Although all types of training could be provided,
the project would emphasize in-country short courses to upgrade the skills of
middle and upper-level government officials and on-the-job training to teach
civil servants new procedures and how to use new equipment. The IPGP would
be expected to furnish a substantial share of local training, but independent
courses can also be developed. In addition, specialists may be hired to
develop and teach specific courses, and those providing technical assistance
would give on-the-job training. Long-term overseas fellowships would be
oriented more toward management, administration, economics, and accounting.
To the extent possible, regional institutions would be used.
56.       The training support, other than assistance to IPGP, proposed under
this project (totalling US$1.14 million, including any salaries and allowances
that Government would continue to pay to public employees in training) would
be allocated as follows:
(i) Cereals marketing (US$60,000), for a local program aimed mostly
at private merchants;
(ii) Rural development agencies (US$180,000) and the state enterprises
sector (US$180,000), for long- and short-term training, including
scholarships for local courses, overseas fellowships, and develop-
ment of local training programs, intended for higher level staff in
the rural devleopment agencies, the state enterprises, and related
government ministries;



- 21 -
(iii) Economic policy analysis and data management (US$270,000), for
all types of training support equally divided among economic
analysis, statistics, and data-processing, intended for staff
in the relevant ministries;
(iv) Civil service (US$180,000), divided between local short-term
training for all senior and middle-level officials, overseas
training for Director General, his deputy, and the division chiefs,
and local on-the-job retraining for staff to enable them to operate
effectively under the new system and with the new equipment to be
set up by the project;
(v) Public debt management (US$90,000), for one overseas fellowship
for the Assistant Director plus short-term training for at
least two staff; and
(vi) IPGP (US$180,000), for local and overseas training to help the
staff improve their teaching skills.
57.       To assure that the training assistance is effectively implemented,
the Project Coordinating Unit would be responsible for establishing semi-annual
training programs for each component that would specify, among other things,
an estimate of training needs, a description of training content--covering
on-the-job training activities for resident specialists and their counterparts,
special in-country short-courses to be developed and given, and long-term
overseas fellowships (estimated at 15-20 trainees)--and criteria for selecting
candidates and courses. For on-the-job training in particular, the training
program would consist of a semi-annual work program that would define training
areas, identify working groups of counterparts, and set out training methods.
Special in-country training programs would be developed taking into account
the suitability and capacity of the IPGP to provide similar training. Choice
of overseas fellowships would take into consideration the advice from project-
financed specialists. To assist the PCU in establishing and carrying out
these training programs, the project would finance two work-years of a train-
ing specialist to work with the Secretariat of the PCU. This specialist would
also help with the detailed administration and management of the training
programs, including approval of the choice of candidates and courses and
assuring that funds are made available to trainees and institutions in a
timely fashion. Because of the importance of training, the Government will:
make qualified counterparts available to work with consultants; appoint
returning trainees to appropriate posts; and require persons receiving overseas
training to continue to work for the Government or other public agency for
twice as long as their time abroad, up to a maximum of 5 years. All training
programs, including criteria for selecting candidates and courses, would have
to be submitted to IDA for approval (DCA Section 3.09).
Project Implementation
58.       Legal and Administrative Procedures.  Under the institutional
structure adopted by the Malian government for this project, it would be
managed by a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) attached directly to the Minister



- 22 -
of Plan. This Unit consists of a Coordinating Committee and a Secretariat.
The Coordinating Committee, presided by the Minister of Plan and composed of
representatives from the Ministries assisted by this project, would supervise
the technical and financial execution of the project, including utilization
and possible reallocation of funds, approval of training programs, and coordi-
nation and communication among different components. It will also approve the
operating budget of the PCU and the work program of the Secretariat. Finally,
it may review and make recommendations on proposed reforms. The Secretariat
is headed by a Project Coordinator nominated by the Minister of Plan and
staffed by at least two assistants. It will be responsible for helping assure
proper liaison among government agencies, monitoring the status of project
execution, administering overseas fellowships, preparing quarterly reports and
a Project Completion Report, maintaining verified statements of local expendi-
tures, keeping accounts, and claiming reimbursements. The various components
would be individually implemented by the Government agencies being assisted,
which would have primary responsibility for contracting studies, recruiting
and supervising specialists, purchasing equipment, and proposing training
candidates and programs. Major decisions would be subject to final review by
the supervisory Ministries and the Coordinating Committee to help assure
consistency among components and with project goals. The technical assistance
contracts must be acceptable to IDA.
59.       A Project Coordinator was appointed in August 1981 and a functioning
Secretariat has been established. An interim Coordinating Committee represent-
ing interested Ministries was set up under the Cabinet of the Minister of Plan
to aid project preparation by reviewing possible project components. The
formal Coordinating Committee has been legally established. Texts defining
its operating procedures have not yet been adopted, but their adoption is
required as a condition of credit effectiveness (see para. 60) (DCA Section
5.01).
60.       To assure that the project is implemented as effectively as possible,
especially in light of the numerous inter-ministerial components, the project
would finance part of the operating costs of this unit. This assistance was
started in August 1981 with PPF funds. Subsequent financing would cover for
a period of three years: the salaries of the project coordinator, two staff
assistants including a Deputy Coordinator, and a secretary, all local hire;
costs of a highly-qualified technical advisor; various office expenses; and
expenses of the Project Coordinating Committee. In addition, it would finance
for a period of two years a training advisor. The technical advisor would
help the project coordinator to execute the project, especially in the areas
of reviewing proposals and bids, supervising and evaluating consultants, and
analyzing studies and recommendations. The training advisor would help the
project coordinator to prepare and administer the various semi-annual training
programs, to establish the procedures for choosing trainees and courses (and
approve their selection), to maintain contact with training institutions, and
to manage the financial and logistical aspects of the training programs.
The Government will:  maintain acceptable staff in the PCU; review with IDA
any change in the Coordinator and his staff or membership of the Coordinating
Committee during project implementation; propose a procedure acceptable to IDA
for the PCU to use in authorizing the allocation of unidentified follow-up



- 23 -
funds and the reallocation of funds from proposed uses; and hire the technical
and training advisors on or before 30 June 1983 (DCA Section 3.01(c)). The
Ministry of Plan must issue terms of reference for operating procedures and
appoint all staff (except the technical and training advisors) of the Project
Coordinating Unit before the credit can become effective (DCA Section 5.01).
Project Costs and Financing
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.5 million,
including taxes and duties (US$0.6 million), of which about two-thirds
(US$7.7 million) would be expenditures in foreign exchange. Total con-
tingencies are US$2.0 million, or 17% of total project costs. The allowance
for expected price increases for both local and foreign costs during the
expected disbursement period of the project is based on projected inflation
rates of 8.0 percent in 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984 and 7.0 percent in
1985. Base costs are estimated at prices prevailing in 1982. Allowances for
physical contingencies except for costs of firm PPF contracts are estimated
at 10 percent of base costs of construction and civil works, equipment,
consultancy services, studies, and fellowships. Project costs are summarized
in the Credit and Project Summary. Annexes V and VI give details.
62.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 9.7 million (US$10.4 million equiva-
lent) would finance about 90 percent of the total project costs. The Govern-
ment would contribute US$1.1 million (including a large share of the office
space, utilities, and local support staff needed for the specialists and some
salaries and allowances of civil servants during training financed by the
project), which represents about 30 percent of estimated local costs. The
Credit and Project Summary gives a proposed financing plan and disbursement
schedule.
63.       Under the proposed project, IDA would finance a total of about 425
work-months of specialists (including those hired for diagnostic studies) for
an estimated total cost of about US$5.0 million. The average work-month cost
for foreign specialists is estimated to be about US$11,500. This rate, which
includes salaries and benefits, costs, fees, international travel and local
subsistence expenses, is based on contracts awarded in 1981-82 for about 75
work-months of technical assistance and studies financed under the PPF. There
is a substantial range in work-month costs, from US$8,500 for resident con-
sultants to US$14,400 for short-term consultants. The figure here is an
average based on projected equal use of short- and long-term consultants. The
average work-month cost for local experts, based on the same contracts, is
about US$2,200, including salaries, overhead, and a professional tax of 15
percent. It is expected that most specialists would be foreign and cost
estimates have been made on this assumption. However, use of qualified local
specialists is encouraged. In addition, equipment, supplies, operating
expenses, local support personnel and set-up charges are also generally
included in the contracts for foreign specialists. On the basis of the PPF
contracts and costs of local agencies, these support costs are estimated
at about US$1,700 per work-month, excluding set-up costs and most of the



- 24 -
equipment, which will be used during the life of the project. Training costs,
exclusive of salaries and allowances paid by the Government, are estimated at
US$2,500 per month of overseas training, based on recent American and French
training assistance costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Contracts for construction and civil works for IPGP, costing about
US$650,000, will be awarded following local bidding and procurement procedures
that have been established under Cr. 733-MLI and are acceptable to IDA.
Equipment, including vehicles, office machines, information-processing equip-
ment, and office furniture and supplies will be procured following acceptable
government shopping procedures, for a total of about US$800,000 with each
contract costing less than US$100,000 equivalent. Any larger contracts would
be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB). Consultants for tech-
nical assistance and studies will be selected according to IDA guidelines.
IDA would waive its right of prior review for contracts of less than US$25,000
for consultant services and of less than US$10,000 for construction, civil
works, equipment, vehicles, local salaries, and operating expenses. These
limits may be raised or lowered by IDA according to the performance of
the PCU (DCA Section 3.02 and Schedule 3).
65.       The Credit of US$10.4 million equivalent would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) Construction and civil works (US$520,000): 80 percent of
all contract costs;
(b) Equipment and vehicles (US$469,000): 95 percent of all costs;
(c) Consultants', experts', and specialists' services for technical
assistance and studies (US$4,249,000): 100 percent of all costs of
internationally-recruited specialists (foreign expenditures for
salaries and benefits, overheads, fees and profits, international
travel and local subsistence expenses); and 85 percent of contracts
for local consultants (local expenditures);
(d) Training and fellowships (US$950,000) and salaries and emoluments of
local support personnel other than experts (US$148,000): 100 percent
of total costs;
(e) Locally paid operating expenses, including office supplies,
utilities, gasoline, and repairs (US$482,000): 75 percent of
costs; and
(f) Reimbursement of two advances under the PPF (US$1,000,000).
In addition, there are is an unallocated amount of US$2,582,000, including
US$750,000 for follow-up technical assistance and studies, with the remainder
for IDA's share of total contingencies.



- 25 -
66.       Disbursements will be fully documented for construction and civil
works, equipment, technical assistance, studies and short-term consultancies,
and against certified statements of expenditure for the project's local
operating costs. The Project Coordinating Unit will maintain all project
accounts, which will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Association. Documentation would be made available for inspection by
the Association in the course of supervision missions.
67.       The total cost of contracts already approved for financing under
advances from the PPF exceeds the US$1.0 million available by about US$0.75
million. To meet these expenses, the project would allow retroactive finan-
cing of up to this amount for expenditures on these contracts and for the
PCU, incurred between September 1, 1982, and Credit Effectiveness. The
project is expected to be closed on June 30, 1987. The total duration of the
overall project, including assistance financed by advances from the PPF, would
thus be about 6 years, although the actual duration of effective assistance to
any specific component, including the PCU, is expected to be 3-4 years.
Subsequent Assistance
68.        Owing to the severity and complexity of the economic and financial
problems and to the existing weaknesses of the Malian administration, assis-
tance provided by the proposed project should be regarded as a first step
toward structural policy and institutional reforms. The form and magnitude
of subsequent assistance will depend on progress made during the proposed
project in improving economic and financial policies and in strengthening
government institutions and training their personnel. Several follow-up
options exist: more technical assistance as well as sector and programmatic
lending. A second technical assistance and training project may be needed to
continue efforts begun under the proposed project to strengthen institutions
and train Malian civil servants. Funds could be allocated under the proposed
project to prepare a second phase. Alternatively, programmatic or sector
lending might be utilized to help finance the actual implementation of the
policy reforms being devised under the proposed project. It is too early to
identify follow-up operations, since the choice will depend partly on perfor-
mance under this project in elaborating a policy reform program and an
implementation plan. However, the agricultural sector is a likely candidate
for a sector loan given the progress achieved to date and the sector's
importance in the Malian economy and to IDA's lending program in the country.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The proposed project represents a tangible commitment on the part
of both IDA and the Malian Government to formulate major reforms of economic
and financial policies that would lead to improved economic management. This
project should also be seen as part of a process, with its output becoming
the basis for subsequent actions. If successful, the proposed project would
yield benefits in three areas: policy reforms, stronger institutions, and
civil servant training. First, the project would contribute to developing a
program of reforms in the agricultural and state enterprise sectors, imple-
mentation plans for these reforms, and ideas for further measures to be
elaborated later. Second, the project would help build stronger government



- 26 -
institutions--better organized, staffed, and equipped--to implement revised
policies. Third, the project would train civil servants to staff institu-
tions involved in defining and carrying out policy reforms.
70.       Even though the Government's commitment to economic and financial
restructuring appears stronger than in the past (para. 12)--especially since
it views this project as the initial stage of a possibly larger program of
assistance for structural change--there are two major risks. First, opera-
tional difficulties, including trouble in recruiting specialists, shortages of
qualified Malian counterparts and students, and the complexity and slowness of
administrative reform generally, may retard progress even if commitment remains
strong. These risks can be reduced by creating a strong Project Coordinating
Unit to implement the project, by ensuring careful, adequate supervision by
IDA, and by continuing to support technical assistance and training. Second,
climatic and economic calamities, as well as political resistance to reforms,
may disrupt the dialogue, invalidate reform plans, and erode the Government's
commitment to make difficult changes. These risks will remain and influence
the timing of reforms, but they cannot be avoided if economic reforms are to
be pursued.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The condition of effectiveness would be that the Ministry of Plan
must issue terms of reference and operating procedures and appoint staff
(except technical and training advisors) for the Project Coordinating Unit
(para. 60).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
November 15, 1982



- 27 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MALI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALI                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGAOES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1240.0                                       MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      320.5                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       60.0         80.0      190.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           14.0         20.0       27.7                  66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       4224.0       5362.0    7045.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    11.0           14.9       19.9                   17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             12.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               40.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             3.4          4.3        5.5                  27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          13.3         16.9       21.4                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              43.7         44.7       45.5                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                              53.7         52.6       51.9                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.6          2.7        2.7                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.1          2.4        2.7                   2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                   5.2          5.4        5.6                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          49.9         49.1       49.5                   47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.8         23.8       21.4                   19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3          3.2        3.3                    3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)              103.0        100.0       84.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.9         85.8       83.1/c                90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               56.3         54.4       51.4/c                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            15.1         15.4       13.67T                18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          45.8         39.8       33.9                   26.7                    23.9
IEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2         40.3       43.2                   45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               194.7        174.5      154.5                  129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    **            *        9.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                    ..         29.0       42.071                54.9
RURAL                                     ..          ..        3. 07                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..         8.0         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                     ..        63.0         ..                  63.1
RURAL                                     ..          ..         ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              67047.6      44314.0   25555.1/c              32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4920.17e,f  2846.1    2375.077                3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1535.0/e,g  1480.0/g  1848.2/c                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                                 370.2/e,g  1310.8       617.771               249.5                    430.8
RURAL                                2950.9/e,g  1604.7          ..                1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..        27.3       30.5/c
MOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..          ..        4.8/d
URBAN                                     ..          ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
URBAN                                     ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                     ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..         ..



- 28 -
XAL% IIh!zL INDZCATOHS DATA ItSIT
KALI                           RFIRINCZ GROUPS (WIUITtD AVR4AQ5
- MOST IUCS USSTMAT)a.
MOST RICIENT           LOW 7NCOMZ              MIDDLt INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTSMAT2 Lb   AFRICA SOUTH Of SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAARAA
EDUCATION
ADJIUSTE ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARYI     TOTAL                  10.0        24.0       2B10                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                  14.0         31.0      36.0                   7S.7                    96.1
FEMAIE                 6.0         17.0      20.0                  30.3                     80.4
SECONDARYI   TOTAL                   1.0         5.0        9.0lc                10.2                     15.3
MALE                   1.0          5.0      13.I0/                 13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          2.0       5.0t;i                6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ESRiOL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.6/h         9.8       9.0.                  7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.6         40.1       42.6                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           17.4        15.4                             26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          2.5/          .-       9.4/d                34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5         1.6        2.1i/                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.9        11.2       13.1                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                   1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERA.
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.2         0.5|k      0.5                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           0.51        ..                   1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2430.0      2963.0    3741.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.1         47.9       47.6                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0        91.0       72.6                  78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          4.0       11.7                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.5         55.3      53.1                  41.4                     37.0
M;ALE                                 60.6         58.6      56.7                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                54.5         52.0      49.7                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        0.9                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEdOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      98.0/c               134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       60.07!                82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       61.01c                96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       37.077                60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       27.0|i                39.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       48.07!                69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends oc availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   1977;  /d 1976;  I7  1962;  /f Government Personnel;  LI  Government hospital establishments;  lh Not
including private vocational schools;  /i 1975;  /j 1974;  /k 1972;  /. 1968.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
-29Q  -3
lOEFINITInUS OP- SOClAs IsgIfATOgS
Notes:  AlIthogh the data aro drato from  sen Eslgerall  jadged the mas  anhriaIead reliable. it shoad also be noted that obey may not bentr
naionaly... coprble betoa  of the lack of _codardledydtfioitioa and  -nnopos used by diffeo-e  -oaner e  to oolcon                       he data.  The data are,ea-
theless  -tfa.1 to deacoltle ordern of sgolonde. indictet treds, end chrl ele               etato  maJor dttere -n  hetwr  cotrta
Therotreoongoopnacr  11 tbnaocnoryrop             blcauhjctoolr-yaod (2) I.oo.ntoy gonpwtithaones.hatbiigh-eoona ielncomthonhecoootrygRInny
of rhI   ujcoucy(oetfr "ih Jncmo                         il  Reporters  greop where "Middle Isonma North Africa and  iddle tit Is chates. necause of    .r
saoioooltoal afinitis).  l  the tef e-e-  grouIp data the aerage  are1 pnIpulnlinn weighted aribtiat stats. foe eaob' iadilotr and show  only ebe
majority of the loo      ..t IIes  legroup ban dataa c.hatI idled  cto.linoorbhoe-eoage at counttrIes amon  the  dind .ot.r  depends en tbaa-ilebility af data
and In oaI    nfombati ms he -enritnd in -e1atitg a--age  ot one idfoste  to another.  Theanneagenr  only  nafu  in copoing the  -alo  of
-e  Indloont   atacim  amon  ohs   . ut,y aod oterencol  groups.
.90Kb (thounald nqce)Puelation per  TopinlBet                                                                                          ari uhoIadrua    Ppltion(otl
Total - Total uoefncs area  -photinig 1ad urre  and iland waters; 1979 dora.                      orab  and ronal) dided by the 1  tOPOltn    uberofhopta  hd
daintuoI. Int imat  ofagicltrl aea od tonpooarlyIo  permnetlya-ilahie Is puhilo and private e.                                      a  andapo iaod hospita1 and r-
for crP., yantor-, maket and kitchen gRdens orto                ois  1-979 date.               haililta-e    eses   Iayt Is  r                1nbih=ee.eresty   ateffd
by at  . les one physician. EIstbIiabh-t proniding prlni. ps1ly onst-
GNP PIt CAPITA (US$) - GNP per caPita en-tlel   aL calel- -ak-t price. -n-                          dil1 lnet  ate  It isoludod.  Rloe1 hanpitals. h--enet. Intde health
c   boe   y u-m  c--eri-- sshod In W.old lank Atlas (1978-8f basin); 1960.                   cod nedio   tet    -sut permanetly staffediby a pyh cla  (but by a
1970, and 1980 data.                                                                              Ieol  sistant,n emidwfeI, Iea.  nho  offr ie-petinnaoe,I                     n
daniee end prerids a limited range ot medlol foaltn    P tsttin-
INRT  0 P14TION PEt CAPITA - AouI..   ... osuptirn of oIrileeg   oa                            ln   apssubnhospitals Jolds WHffO. prisLpa/eea  hml n
and lignIte, peltol-m  n-tna  gas and hydon-, nala   ndgohralee-ad rural h.:spital, lena  on erI..I hesittala end sedlln1 sd matenoiy
'triitIy) In kilograms nf Inol  q.ni_alet Pen capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                        ontes    peotalieed hospitals aeIsaudd only under  totl.
data.                                                                                           Addeiai.. pear fHaspital Bed- Tnta1  nie  at admissions to or disohoeges
fins hnspitals dinided by the somber of beds.
POPULATION ff41 VIT1.5. STATISTICS
TetolP1  aaran   id-lea  (oben..ands) - in of July 1; 1960, 19701. ad 19Sf                   ff1SINC4
data.                                                                                          eAge liteso Ilnmaed  Ipeson  per honewhld) - nm. urba,,  and .n.en-
Urba  Pnpalatioo(eco  of total    R lotle of oebhn  to total pnpalaoion;                          A    ..anshod aensisth f     gou f     jandulwashe  lvig quartets
diffeers deftaiin fubnasnsyaf    aep  rbility of data                                           an   thir main macin.  A hoerder orldger may or soy sat he ioluded Lr
Oman  ...nnl-; 1960, 1970, and 19ff data,                                                   the ho=ehld foe nttaimtiol  -p-r-ss
.Popoluota  Projetla                                                                           dseraon _e ofpes.n. en..              m   total, nrha, and  -eal - averge  n
PoyIaIti.o In yeut 2000 - CInItreut population prejetti-s are hose.d on 1961                   her -n persos pe   roamin  al uban, and rura  ooepied c.n.otlnea
coaIyI    lo nbyIage aed uenan  their  -arolity and fertililpt ots                           denlliogs, re-p- teely.  Dwellings eeIl.danon-permaaeotstarene
PrjetIvo par_tIo   fe  motItyJ IIten  -.speime of threeI.I  ......sus                       ntopied psrts-
la   ife  upecoa..cy-a birdh ieoreanig with  -Iotry's Per  .plta Incest                 hAvensto Elnotriaity  (peroen  af deing)-  toA.      Ita.1 arbae. and rural 
len   atdfeal  Ife, epe .....y bnnillolog as 77.1 years.  The pora-                         Cenrestia...l deslliegs eJtb e1loonioty in linIng qnartes..P as .peesslge
matersfor frtilIyroeaahethree Ius   ausagd.i    in                                      of ttl   IrI, and meal doeklisgnneseItlively.
fertooot cvro__ingte  ilove    _ene  aed ynt Ielly  pI.anIieg   _e_aac..
~lohf ...try In thee  -aig.ed eon of thes  nIne o-milaaies of   arralioy                 EDUICATION
ad fetililr ternfn far projeoti-oprynn                                                    Adj-nn  tEnaIme1so  aRtia
ltntiaoary yvpolatoe-Ivnnoao Icoarypoyalaien there in no gewaaiosPeay nha  -  otlml and female -Imtnl   aemdfml
rhe binoh rate is equal 0the death rat, aed am h.             gearoor e.srla  of all age  as tbe pelsary i-ee                                       P an tpereetgeno esI tn
mains co-t-o   Thin is -rhievdnlI           fter fertilitY raoen deolien  ta                    primary enhol -age poplati...; normaly Ielde   hldenae  h-Il
the  eplonnel loel o  anonateyrdual Ievrae, ohee each genraiopar  bal adjoated far diffetees lengths of peliry edoatien; for
ofevn  rI.,e        ifnl  enctl.  Th. non   ..sry pepnloeaeenoieno                                         ihatrra   dote  eeralI-t may esteed ifO peroent
-ni-ood  -c the hann of the projected ch-ru  Ie t r   f tepyaioniece see  pupils ar thba   r  henthe official sobol egs.
In the year 2000. old rho rate of decfie of fertiltoy rate to replue-                        Secondary achol -total, male and female - C.sputed an abase; seno dee
envo level.                                                        ednoation  requires an~~~~~~_.t. leat fear yearn af appeared primary inrotian
Year  tat ootyypaati. in .eaobhd - The ye-  whtt noatln-ry papola-i-                       pnd               I lenrl   n =atael, or teenher tralteg lotrunIIte.n fat popiln
nnsill be reahed.                                                                             ..nallyIof 12 to 17 years of age; --eepende...oe. ctme  ate g ..eeahly
Pe ka.h. -Mid-yea  yapoluoa- per nqnne kilonter (101 heotaren) at                        Vocational eIninn   perMr afasaday) - Onoa-i-sl tsatisulins
toa 1mn   9f.17   n   99   data.                                                       inoludo  ebool  inunr         -l,orote  pregratswho  opet   nesd-
Petno  io.  a5iolo      qllad-Cos.p.ted vs aba- foI         grrltrl.lad                         esoly onasdepartros at senndary inesltnt inn..  i              ...i
oly; 1960, 1970 end. 1979 data.                                                           Pupil-teaherrai  -  rmr.  n   eodary - Tto1ni andeetmen...aled In
-epuatAllheIrulc   (yeroe-       i   Chiblidree f0-lu years), working-age (11-                 ptimany ond menandary levels diridad by onebern of teao.bers is the
hiyearn),ad raIrd 165 pears aed vIe) as p-eretages of mid-yeo  papo-                           enrespoedinglels
latian; 1960, 19'00tiaod 1911 data.                                                           Molt lfteraoy rote fpen..st) - Litertet  adn1te fable t  read and write)
Pepnlatiloo Growth Rat  lsren  I-aal- PAvl-1 greth rar f tete1 mid-                               aIFe_etage 0f ntal. adolt population aged 15 years and anmr.
year yPIaacuo  fo  1950-60. 1960-70, a-d 1910-fl8.
PPoplali-n loowo~ tot  (percet) - -rhee- Aev...l groeth rates at arban popo-                 CONSUMSPTIONf
latioos for- 1950-60, 19h-70,  nd1970-90.                                                    PasenerCa   (per1 obhosod rastlatauf-Pesnroescmrsmar
Crd  Btrob Outo (per th'nnnd I- .-oun  lIve rlrtha Per chaatId af mid-yea                        ar   eaig   u   tha.  Edgh  Peros2         clde   naao    hease  aad
,poylatien; 1960. 1970, aed 1990 data.                                                          si-Oayveils
ma.de Death RoIse_yer thoosoad) -  onoal de-ho Per tho san.dof mid-year                         Radio  eenr  (pe  rb....ad pepulalteoL'    All typesfIecirer  f-r radio
peynlarlIe; 1960 , 1970, and 1990 datab ..hrodcanI.tntgenena  yaI  Is   honnadIof popein.ia; eeludes  a
GIraaneRa2d-ci-vRIato- ArecIg. euos               -glr,         -  1belod oien wsa ilh rlo1       Illtee.edr Ieen    i--aoiense.d Ioyencwhee..                sta Iesf di.
hertasl     e  epoda-io- period if she any_iene  prsn  age-speclfio  fo-                        sets  na ie off-t; data tar moans yearn may not he  -porblr elat
IIoy  roses; Inealy five-peo I aI ...gen eadiag In 1960, 1970  ..ad 1990.                         atta-IIrIe  abolished licanitg.
Panily Piani       A-Acortar   hAooaI  (rheanadeIA .-  Iooa  o-ber of acc eptors                T leeer  (pr        .hosad papollais) - TV re-esv.. for breado.so toI
of hitch-cotrolI devcs  neraplcen of atiu    aily plnigpengoam.                                 gEnea _    A    pe  tha....d           IIpaate; enloden  slic .a.n.ed TVeoeen
PsmIIrPIa_oIII-Rsn    fyarceo           __ amriodeoe)PteaaeemrIad                                 Iecnneies and in yearn she. ragistttruoleIf TV sets was In  Wielt.
woana  child-b earing age (15-44 yearn)  h.a a       ie hicl-cotr1  device   eferaae    ioaaln(ertes    paploo                                     El) - Ooe  ohe.ovrag  air-
all marrIed wor IO saw_ agrou.                                                                  ouleionof  dailyIgerditretnwppr. dfi.ed as p peiedila1
publnta   denoted prtiarilyp . o e_ordin  geso  nes   It In vanaidered
PIOOD ffN0 NIPITION                                                                                 to he "dolly" Of it appears at leasIt fea  tim   a web.
Ilode- of PoedProdocoll Per Capita (1969-71-1f0) - Rodeo If per c-pita .no..I                  CIeaAna   tedeeyt    iaprYa-indo  the stinterie
yrodoctfInofal  od c_nditi-n   P-od-ti-otac lad-a sed and t.eead Ilcessl   urn   h   en  ieidsa ainn   to dr ivefeceea
I  00 ca1-da- yea  hauls.  Cnmsditiea core  priImar  good  (e.g. nograe                        and mobile  -its..
lo.ted of nafar) ahich I are eihe aed rotootri-otn  (e.g. coffee and
tea are encluded).  Aggregac  production of eah  --try In hose.d as                        11AB0f PORCE
oatil...l a_erageproducerP pIce  night; 1911-h5, 1970,..ad iq8g d.oa.                        Total Labor Fence fthe...and) - U ....mically a-le  pe              i..Inclding
rot eap sta nyply of oirr  (pret0  requrmns  - Computed tree                                     armd   Ionad unemployed bnt enoldieg hoeie,saeo,e
engeqiralet of net toed nupylies  -riluhIe            in .coutry pe-o .peirt.ie  pepalutt o_  f all oge..  DfleietIe..nveas  ann                                     r
per. day.  Aivalblenpye ct prise d-selc pr-doatlee, imparts  ea                                 not o-nbin; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dota.
enperta, ond choogen Ia mooc.  INc aoypylieno  ind touma  fed, needs,                          Pemle(proeo)-  emal 1laber tome. as percetag,e of ntatl inte  force.
quantities -ed Iv food processing, ad II.ne  in dinoibatiar.  Requite-                         Atlatne(eon) - fch  farce io foenlug. festy, hasting and
swoo   ere eti Omaed by pAyI based .. phynieegical n.end  for normal aci-                         fisbieg an peecewnage of teu1 labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1990 data.
vranhelh c idntdeiog  erivmea   epr r,bd   eights,:  age                                Industry (pee-at) -abeetorei   iig   nnrcin    aaute
aod se  dioooibatieo of poyoplo1      an.  d ololgiItlretfrats                                     n  ecrlty.Hae                uno   eroae of cora  labo  face
houehldlevel; 19h1-6S. 1970 o-d 1977 dato.                                                     1960. 1970 and 199  dat.
Per capit Iopyo n--       tei  (gra tpe  day)- Prt_tacvn.... I    ye P        a_ t P_rioittto Ots freece.o) - total, male, and femal  - Penttiapatle   o
art noply of food lpr  day. ec sny,t pl y of fev  Is defloed en above.  f.-                    actiriop eaten are composed an  ctrl, male, and female labor foereaI
qormsafcc  II     ntIII    ntaIiehed by flIA pro-ide for slinne                           Iecoae   f total, male  nd female ppolati-r If al lgen enspetivoly;
allea..e. at 60 gEama of toral prtlein po  day nod20gre   of aIma  nod                          196. 1970, and 1990 dat.          n   rehaedasR.e.aricpato   ae
pulse prteanl, of RwIh1   cm   h. ld be aimal prIIoII.  Ibs   tn-                               eitlg   g-e.otcoeo  the poyire,adln   toted 
ads, are lone  te  thseat7  grass of teta1 Protein and 23 gEen- of                              fewntsates are team  natioa .       nn.oI
anima IPrtIn_ a_e Ivege for the world, propose.d by PAl i, the Third                         Elo...mIo Dnpendesr Rtoia - Rosin of pepoletie  nnder 11 and 65 and ee
,.rId Feed toroey; 1961I-6i, 1970 and 1977 loon,                                                en tbe totaI lsbo Pote
Per c_elto yIatet   Iappl loan anima  end         .  onePencein  nepyly of food fe-
nier1 from aImals and pae.. in grenpee day; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 duta.                   IfCOC[Ee  DISTgIBUTION
Child fuse  11-4  eahR loe(pe  thea-d) - annual deahs Pen th....nd In                           Pretag  o f Piue  Inoaa (bath In cash ned bked) - R e.niend by eilh-s
agt gUr.   1 y~ears  to children In this age gconp, for mon  devlop ing coon-                   Necet   elh..   Opro,ponnD  pret n  p..es  4f percent
IIIes data derived fras life tables; 1961, 19 70 und 1990 data.                                at   . henhblds.
SHEATHf                                                                                         POYEIITY TARGET  GROUPS
kite Earctny.          io pe  ace) t-IAerge oushen el rears of life  eann                      The fail awn   nimae  ur    r   ppraimate r                 Iee    f p-netylee.
at bitll; 1960  19      Iad 1900 data                                                           an  ahnud heIntrrted 6ityh innderuie abl             o
Inan lralIty  oe(e  ohounndl 9- dnai deaho of infsntnaadee nn  year                       gatlmated ,mAlateI Pe-rey Inter Level (00$ Per ., pita) -_arban end raral1
ofaee  rh...ad lIne biIrth; 1960, iqyo and 1980 da,                                          tsolat  poverty J.oor level Os othe ienr le-1 below whIch a minimal
Alln olaease Ipecea  ofyar iatlo) - otatl. rben  an.d mini1 - Nu-                                    itris..nily adequate diet plu  essen..tial se-fend reqait-ten  Os eat
her 0g penple (tr.nbse, and rua) with reaonble ence.. to safe                                   utfard.bie.
waerspply (Includes Itretedsete water  -r usneated bat Ia...ntaitaatd                     Entimated Relative Pen-rty  ee    ee  (0$pr  eptaIrhsad  ne
muersuh ashoe Inns prtec.ted bh...elen, spetega, and sanitary wells) am                     Renal reati-e pn-rty Ooor tenel In ee-thied ofacege par ospIt
peotusof theIr  . tepeosinepapulotine..                  -I In .s    ..noeapahiin               personl iene   ef ebe oeatry.  Orbee 1e-n  is deniend ftam .sh .enro
tnn-ai  or sredpnst Danaed nt_mr  then 200 metrsen  a.house sup be                             leve  wIth udjuntrt foe higSer cas  af linIng in neasstms
aosIds..eda- beIg with bIn -ensnbi  aeces  at then bones . In  ralaeas.                      Isttmed Peenlostl:m Esu   Ahs-lse P'nety Imeer LereI (pere.... -)  aban
reosnabe enone  wold Ily then the henaseife o  reesI o  the be..ei                 ad           wa      ews   f popslti   (erbas and en-l)  h.e acI           helt
do ens bees t  speed a dtmpenperriemte pset of the dsy  in fetehing tbe
fal7   etrsas
sunte o  pepie(t _ti,  eha, ad rural) sevd by  srs  dlspan  as...
P             frnngma  their I-espolte pepeiatis..  InReta disposal  may iseind
tbe  .oIleethe and dispesm1.wish ne i-kns  teent_a, at I_s  _srg
and w..e-= t-e hy estee-hb         system   -r the  -a  et pit peilss- and si-
Peenlaniots net, Phesile I- Pepsisti,, dintded bp sbr ef pemotiibng phpsi-                                                            ZE.-ni  used fenis1 Dens flirisi
nissaqaslf le -tee   -diaal mhen  a  ui-ersty lee.Iememl  Analysis en  Ptejmatges  NsParts
PeesI.iosi  ee  Mrse N     ests& ""  - Papslatin divided by  emban et prantimfg                                                                    lImp 1982
ala  and cerisega.      t  sse,  sIstant nre,pemasi-I  --an  and
macsIn  snisees



- 30 -
Annex I
Pg  4
ECONOMIC INDIC_ATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRUOUCT IN 19BO                                                                                         ANNUAL COMOUND RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ MSin.               X                                                        1960-67      1967-74       1974-80        1981
GNP at Market Prices                         1,335.8                100.0                                                         3.5          1.8          6.8          0.2
Gross Domestic Investment                      210.8                  15.8                                                        6.1         -2.1          8.7          7.9
Gross National Saving                          -39.8                 -3.0                                                       -2.8              1/             1/
Current Account Balance                      -240.9                 -18.0                                                      -15.5 2/    -6.6 2/    -1.2 2/
Esports of Goods, NFS                          268.3                 20.1                                                        12.0          2.8         11.6
Lnpo,rts of Goods, NFS                         529.8                 39.7                                                       13.7           4.9         6.2
JUIPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODJCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added                              Labor Force 4/                              V.A. Per Worker
US$ SIGn.                 %                        Mln.__         X                             US$           X     5/
Agriculture                                  556.8                   41.7                       2.7         73                               210        75
Industry                                    138.2                    10.3                       0.4         12                               316        86
Services                                    640.8                    48.0                       0.5          15                            1,174       320
Totul/overage 3/                   1,335.8                   100.0    .                   3.6     100.0                                367      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE 6/
General Government                        Central Government
(MF Bln.)            X of GDP            (MF Bln.)                X of GDP
1980          1980      1977-79           1980             1980      1977-79
Ctrrent Receipts                            97.9            16.5         14.0           59.4              10.0        11.6
Current Expenditures                        114.0 7/        19.2         15.1           80.9 7/           13.6        13.6
Current Surplus                            -16.1           -2.7          -1.1          -21.5              -3.6       -1.7
Capital Expenditures                          2.5 4/         0.4          0.8            2.5 4/            0.4         0.8
External Assistance  (net)                   73.4           12.4         15.0           14.2               2.4         1.4
RONEY, CREDT1 AND PRICES  8/                1977            1978         1979           1980              1980        1981
November November
(Billion MF outstanding end period)
Money and Qausi-money                       83.6           103.0        120.2          125.6             119.1       121.4
Bank Credit to Government                   94.4           108.8        110.1          111.8              99.4 4/  124.0
Bank Credit to Economy                     107.2           131.6        152.2          164.0             159.8       173.4
(of which State Enterprises)         (64.4)          (71.9)     (89.2)          (104.6)            103.5     (106.4)
lonep and Quasi Money as % GDP 9/           21.1            24.3         22.9           21.1
General Price Index (1977=100) 10/    100.0                109.7        122.4          140.4
Annual percentage change in
General Price Index                           7.7            9.7         11.6           14.7
Bank Credit to Government                   31.1             2.5          5.2           -2.4
Bank Credit to Economy                     -12.5            22.8         15.7            7.8
(of which State Enterprises)    (-25.1)              (11.6)       (24.1)         (17.3)
Note:    ALl  conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period coverd.   Not available indicated by "
and not applicable by
1/        Gross national savings turned negative in 1974, making it impossible to calculate a growth rate.
2/        Growth rates calculated from resource gap, not current account balance.  A negative sign indicates a growing deficit.
3/        Figures may not s-m to totals because of rounding.
4/        Based on data in the World Development Report _982.
0/        Percent of country average.
6/        i980 figures not strictly comparable to those for 1977-79; 1979 is provisional.
7/        Includes 4.0 for accrued but unpaid expenditures and net unallocated expenditures
8/        From International Financial Statistics.
9/        Based on year-end levels, not monthly averages
lo/       GDP deflator.
August 20, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 1/                                                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, FOB (AVERAGE 1978-80)
1978              1979               1980                                                    US$ Mm.                x
Millions US$)
Exports of goods, NFS                       144.5             193.0             268.3                  Cotton and products                 79.3               51.4
Imports of goods, NFS                      339.5              434.1             529.8                  Livestock and products              43.5              28.2
Resource gap (deficit = -                 -195.0            -241.1             -261.5                  Groundnuts and products              8.1               5.2
Fish (dried and smoked)             2.1                1.4
Factor Payments (net)                      -10.9              -11.8             -14.4                  All other commodities               21.4              13.9
Private Transfers (net)                     37.1               32.2              35.0                       Total                         154.4             100.0
Balance on Current Account                -168.8              220.7            -240.9
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1980 6/
Government Transfer (net)                   103.9             106.7             108.3                                                                    US$ Mln.
MLT Capital (net) 2/
Receipts                         71.7              91.9              124.2                   Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                       852.6
(of which public debt)         (68.7)            (75.0)            (84.8)                    (of which disbursed)                             (621.1)7/
Payments                        -19.3             -16.2              -18.6
(of which public debt)          (8.7)             (8.8)            (11.1)
Subtotal                         52.4              75.7              105.6                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980 8/
Other Items, n.i.e.                         -8.7                1.9             -13.8
Increase in Reserves (+)                   -21.2              -36.4             -40.8                                                                         8
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                         4.1
Gross Reserves (end year) 3/                  8.5               8.8               15.3                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, APRIL 30, 1981, (Million US$)
Net Reserve (end year) 3,4*/               229.4             -258.5            -248.9
IBRD       IDA
Imports of petroleum                        43.7               55.5              82.8
Imports of foodstuffs 5/                    52.3               47.9              78.8                  Outstanding & Disbursed                      0.0    143.2
Undisbursed                                  0.0      69.9
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed               0.0      213.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE                             1978              1979               1980        1981
US$   1.00   =   MF                       451.27             425.45            422.60       543.46
HF      100   =   US$                        0.22              0.24              0.24         0.18
(As of May, 1982:  US$   1.00 - MF 601.71
MF    100 = US$ 0.17)
Note:  Not available indicated by ".." and not applicable by "."
1/     Trade data from World Bank; factor payments, transfers, and capital flows from various IMF sources.
2/      Includes investment and borrowing.
3/     Converted at end of period exchange rates.
/     Net foreign assets of banking system; differences between years do not necessarily correspond to changes in reserves,
in part because different exchange rates may be used.
5/      Includes food aid.
6/      Medium and long-term.
7/      Includes US$ 141.2 million in arrears on principal and interest.
8/      Ratio of Debt Service to exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
August 20, 1982



- 32 -                              ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at August 31, 1982
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                    Amount
Number      Year       Purpose                          IDA     Undisbursed
=----US$ million----
Ten  Credits fully disbursed                           61.6
383-1-MLI  1975   Second Highway                        8.3 /1       1.04
538-MLI    1975   Livestock                            13.3          1.54
599-MLI    1976   Third Highway                       10.0           0.04
669-MLI    1977   Mali-Sud Agricultural               15.5           2.73
713-MLI    1977   Railway III                         10.5           3.96
733-MLI    1978   Education II                        10.0           2.38
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                       15.0           0.74
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                  4.5          0.43
883-MLI    1979   Forestry                              4.5          2.53
943-MLI    1919   Urban Development                    12.0          6.95
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development    8.0               6.89
1104-MLI   1981   Road Maintenance                     17.0         12.69
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion  3.7               2.09
1174-MLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance          6.5           6.50 /2
1200-MLI   1982   Second Telecommunications           13.5          13.50 /2
213.9         64.01
of which has been repaid            0.9
Total now held by IDA*                               213.0
Total undisbursed                                                   64.01
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
/1   Supplementary Credit to Credit 383-MLI.
/2   The Credit was signed on April 30, 1982 and is not yet effective.



- 33 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as at September 30, 1982
Loan                                                      Amount
Number   Year  Borrower                   Purpose         of Loan  Equity  Undisbursed
---------…US$ million-------
403-MLI 1978 Societe Mamadou
Sada Diallo et Fils       Bleach and
Plastic
Products          0.6                 0.0
612-MLI  1982  Societe Industrielle       Sheanut butter
de Karite du Mali, S.A.  for export         1.9      0.5        2.6 1/
C. Status of Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1982 2/
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982, extended to June 30, 1984.
The project consists of (a) introduction of livestock extension
services and grazing control schemes in three selected areas (b) provision
for animal health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d)
construction of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets,
(f) development of a pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training
and functional literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Although most components were successfully executed, there was no progress on
the more innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the
rational use of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining
funds under the Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research
and pilot schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay
a sound basis for a follow-up project. A livestock component will be included
in the Mopti Area Development Project; preparation of the livestock component
by FAO/CP will take place in November and appraisal is scheduled for early
1983.
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 669-MLI       Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are being
developed beyond expectations. Project activities are progressing satisfac-
torily and have been extended to millet and sorghum. Production for cotton
and coarse grains is beyond appraisal estimates, although the last two years
showed a declining cotton production due to terms of trade unfavorable to the
farmers: inadequate adjustments in the cotton price structure by Government
in early 1981, as a result of partial removal of subsidies on inputs, resulted
in major financial difficulties for the implementing agency. Although these
were resolved in April of that year, a second project now in preparation aims
at lasting solutions through sectoral adjustment lending.
Credit 713-MLI       Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982, extended to March 31, 1984.
Implementation of the bridge rehabilitation and repair program,
the project's main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979.
The remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as
the bid price exceeded the anticipated cost, were included in an EEC Special
Action Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (CFM) main capacity and
operational constraint continues to be the low availability of locomotives.
This had thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of imports from Dakar,
where high stocks of Mali-bound products accumulated at the port awaiting
transport to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power was worsened by a
collision in December 1979, leaving a gap which can only be filled by
augmenting the locomotive fleet. This has been covered by a reallocation
of available funds from the EEC Special Action Credit.
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
In December 1981, the Credit Agreement for this project was amended
to provide for the deletion of construction of the National Institute for
Management, Loulouni teacher training camp and housing for literacy supervisors,
and the allocation of funds for the preparation of future projects. Construc-
tion has been completed for all remaining components except the livestock
technician training center (EIV), which is expected to be completed and
equipped by the beginning of 1983. EIV teachers trained in Europe have just
returned to Bamako and will be ready for the opening of the center.  As the
lack of new curricula and teacher preparation continues to hamper adequate
utilization of the science centers, a specialist in science and technology
visited Mali in June 1982 to assist the Government in its efforts to resolve



-35 -                              ANNEX II
Page 4
this issue. Programs for the two agricultural training centers are being
developed jointly by IDA and USAID teams. Encouraging progress is being made
in implementing new programs for grades 7 and 8 in the rural lower secondary
schools.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (26,200 ha) for rice culti-
vation under controlled flooding. Main components are civil works; deep
ploughing; building; farm machinery and civil works maintenance; applied agri-
cultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult literacy program.
The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of the Genie Rural.
In general, the physical progress has been satisfactory but the project
suffers from the inadequacy of the agricultural credit system, grazing facili-
ties for traction animals, rice seed production, and excessive flooding
depths. Corrective measures are taken in the ongoing project, which would be
continued in a follow-up project.
Credit 854-MLI       Office du Niger - Technical Assistance/Engineering
Project. US$4.5 million Credit of October 30,
1978; Effective Date: January 31, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982, extended to March 31, 1983.
The project was designed to prepare (a) an infrastructure rehabilita-
tion program, (b) a pilot program of on-farm works (1,500 ha), and (c) urgent
spot repairs of the irrigation infrastructure. The technical assistance
project consists of (1) engineering services to prepare plans required for the
appraisal of an infrastructure rehabilitation program, (2) training of irriga-
tion construction personnel, (3) audit, (4) livestock studies, (5) research,
and (6) a socio-economic study of the settler population. Except for the
Kogoni rice research station equipment, all project components have been
implemented. The project did not reach all of its objectives because the
Office proved inapt at absorbing technical assistance effectively. Major
institutional issues related to management weaknesses prevented the implementa-
tion of a first phase rehabilitation project. Interested donors (France,
Netherlands, and IDA) continue the dialogue with Government on how to resolve
the institutional issues and provide technical assistance for this purpose.
Credit 883-MLI       Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelwood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts' services



- 36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 5
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program. The
project has started satisfactorily, but a problem has recently developed with
respect to availability of Government counterpart funds.
Credit 943-MLI       Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project assists Government in providing affordable urban
services to low income urban residents and mobilizing local resources. For
the capital city of Bamako, the project provides shelter, services and related
community facilities for about 50,000 low income residents; improves health
and sanitary conditions; and carries out an investment study. In addition,
new institutions will be created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen
and develop the urban setor. Market facilities and promotion of local building
materials would aid local entrepreneurs.   The secondary centers of Mopti and
Kayes will receive essential water and sanitation services. Project implemen-
tation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 986-MLI       Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program; and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), Mali's sole producer of pasteurized milk
products. All components have been initiated satisfactorily except the ULB
expansion program which has been delayed primarily because of ULB financing
constraints.
Credit 1104-MLI      Road Maintenance Project.  SDR 13.4 million Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: September 10, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project consists of urgently needed maintenance on 6,600 km of
roads and periodic maintenance works on 900 km of roads. It includes strength-
ening of the Equipment Service and Training Center of the Ministry of Transport
and Public Works and assistance to the Ministry in setting up a transport data
collection unit. A program of vehicle axle-load control would be initiated
under the project.



- 37 -                             ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 1134-MLI    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Prtject; SDR 3.1 million
Credit of April 29, 1981. Effective Date: October 29, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project provides technical assistance to help monitor ongoing
exploration by oil companies and interpret the results of this exploration.
Experts have been engaged to investigate known oil shale deposits, and to help
elaborate a national energy policy. The supervision mission, in the field in
March, decided in agreement with the Government and after reviewing previously
undertaken quality tests to reduce the scope of the drilling campaign and to
suppress the study of mining method as well as the pre-feasibility study.
Credit  1174-MLI    ODIPAC Technical Assistance Project.  SDR 5.5 million
of April 30, 1982; Effective Date: September 17, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project supports a rural development institution in defining a
new approach to agricultural development in the groundnut belt and in investi-
gating the scope for further investments. It comprises a three-year program
aimed at (i) increasing the efficiency of agricultural production by retraining
extension staff, improving seed production, distribution and storage, and
strengthening the credit and marketing system; (ii) promoting self-managed
farmer organizations able to take over village development activities, and
(iii) testing diversification programs to reduce the area's dependence on
groundnuts as an export crop.
Credit 1200-MLI      Second Telecommunications Project.  SDR 11.4 million
Credit of April 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 20,
1982 (anticipated); Closing Date: June 30, 1988.1/
Credit 1282-MLI      Power/Water Project.  SDR 20.4 million Credit of
October 14, 1982; Effective Date: January 14, 1983
(anticipated); Closing Date: December 31, 1987.1/
1/ - This Credit is not yet effective.



- 38 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.   Project Identification Missions:  1980
B.   Preparation Mission:  November-December 1981
C.   Appraisal Mission:  April-May 1982
D.   Date of completion of negotiations:  October 1982
E.   Planned date of effectiveness:  March 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of effectiveness:
The Ministry of Plan must issue terms of reference and operating
procedures and appoint staff (except technical and training
advisors) for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (para. 60).
B.   Conditions of disbursement:
Before the credit can be disbursed for construction and other
assistance to IPGP, the Government must adopt a reorganization
plan acceptable to IDA and fill all staff vacancies, including a
director and qualified administrative and financial officer (para.
52).
C.   Other Conditions:
The government will or has agreed:
(i)  to submit to IDA on or before 31 March 1983 terms of reference
for the remaining technical assistance to support cereals
marketing reform (para. 35);
(ii)  to submit to IDA on or before 30 June 1983 terms of reference
for technical assistance to help rehabilitate the rural develop-
ment agencies and the state enterprise sector (subsequent to
the diagnostic studies) (paras. 37 and 41) and to help in
carrying out economic and financial policy analysis in the
National Planning Office (para. 43);



- 39 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) to pay any operating deficits of IPGP during the project and to
maintain acceptable staff in major IPGP positions (para. 53);
(iv) to hire a technical advisor and a training specialist for the
PCU under terms of reference acceptable to IDA on or before
30 June 1983, to maintain acceptable staff in PCU positions and
to consult with IDA when making major staff changes, to submit
for IDA approval training programs--including criteria for
selecting candidates and courses--developed by the PCU, and to
develop procedures acceptable to IDA for the PCU to use in
authorizing the allocation of unidentified follow-up funds and
the reallocation of funds from proposed uses (paras. 57 and 60);
(v) to make qualified counterparts available to work with con-
sultants, to appoint returning trainees to appropriate posts,
and to require persons receiving overseas training to continue
to work for the Government or other public agency for twice as
long as their time abroad, up to a maximum of 5 years (para.
57).



- 40 -                             ANNEX IV
Page I
MALI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Mali
1.        This annex describes the major sources and types of technical
assistance that has been provided to Mali over the last decade or so.
United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
2.      The UNDP is one of the  largest suppliers of technical assistance
to strengthen public administration in Mali. Those programs relevant to this
project include assistance to the Secretariat of the National Commission for
Administrative Reform (CNRA), the Ministry of Plan, and the business manage-
ment training institute (IPGP). The CNRA was conceived in 1969 as a tool
to help bring about economic and financial reform in Mali; it was formally
established in 1973 under the Ministry of Labor and Civil Service. The
International Labor Office (ILO) provided initial technical assistance, and
the UNDP began a formal project in 1973 through the United Nations Office of
Technical Cooperation. After an initial phase of studies and analysis, a
second phase began in 1977 to consolidate the earlier progress by transferring
more responsibilities to national experts, by passing necessary laws and
regulations, and by training. The third and final stage will begin in 1982,
with the goal of actually putting the reforms into place. The current team of
technical assistants has been extended through mid-1986. From 1973 to 1982,
the technical assistance has provided roughly 62 work-years of professional
services and over 12 years of long- and short-term overseas fellowships. The
third phase is scheduled to furnish about 30 work-years of expatriate assis-
tance, with special emphasis on personnel management, data-processing, and
management of the para-public sector. Another 12 years of training is also
planned. Results include detailed administrative rules, staffing plans and
job descriptions for 2,600 government services, a computerized roster of most
government employees, and initial steps to computerize salary calculations and
payments. In addition, there has been close collaboration with a program of
technical assistance in the Ministry of Finance working to computerize Govern-
ment budgetary operations.
3.        The current UNDP technical assistance to the Ministry of Plan
began in 1980 with a two and one-half year project to provide support to
the National Planning Office (DNP) to formulate and execute the 1981-85
Five-Year Plan, including support to regionalize development planning and to
evaluate projects.  Setting up an information system for planning purposes,
training Malian professionals, and doing studies are major components of the
project. A 3-year follow-on costing US$2.6 million has been approved by the
UNDP. It will be executed by the Department of Technical Cooperation for
Development of the UNDP and contains with five major components: (a) strength-
ening the DNP to plan, obtain financing for and monitor projects and to
analyze macro-economic conditions; (b) helping the National Office for



- 41 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 2
Statistics and Data Processing (DNSI) improve the quality of national accounts
and principal economic indicators; (c) strengthening the regional directorates
of the Ministry to participate more actively in the planning process; (d)
improving the Ministry's documentation center; and (e) expanding training for
professionals in the Ministry. In this second phase, the majority of foreign
staff resources would be allocated to regional planning activities, with the
rest alocated to central agencies to strengthen project analysis, national
planning and statistics. UNDP assistance also is being used to prepare for
the Round Table discussion of the 1981-85 Plan at the end of 1982, to which
major donors will be invited. Together, these projects amount to an important
assistance to the Ministry of Plan, involving US$3.6 million, over 20 work-
years of foreign specialists and the equivalent of about 48 months of over-
seas fellowships.
4.        The final area of UNDP assistance is to the IPGP, provided through
the ILO. The first project covered 1972-76 to help establish the IPGP and
train its staff. A second phase, originally covering 1977-81, was extended
to 1983 for a total cost of US$2.2 million. It has provided substantial
technical assistance, including over 20 work-years of specialists to teach,
develop curricula, and carry out studies of state enterprises. It also funded
the equivalent of about 39 months of overseas fellowships.
5.        UNCTAD--via the UNDP--has expanded its initial technical assistance
program to include domestic commerce, which should help support the sectoral
reforms undertaken for cereals marketing. Specifically, the project includes
2 work-years each for the National Directorate for Economic Affairs (DNAE),
a body that regulates and helps enforce official prices, and the Chamber of
Commerce, which is the most important organization of private grain merchants.
This additional assistance is just beginning.
France
6.        The French government also provides substantial technical assistance,
although most is attached to investment projects or provided as teachers to
the Ministry of Education. Out of a total of almost 400 specialist positions
in each of the last 3 years, only four are allocated to the Ministry of Plan
and nine to the Ministry of Finance. Of those in the Ministry of Plan, one is
allocated to the State-owned consulting firm for economic development (SNED),
one is for data processing and two are in the planning office. In the past,
the French government provided considerably more technical assistance to the
Ministry of Plan, especially for training. Owing to the Ministry's problem
of keeping trained staff and making effective use of specialists, French
assistance to this Ministry has been scaled down. Only three of the four
current positions are actually staffed (the one for data processing is vacant),
and all but one will be terminated by the end of 1982. In contrast, assistance
to the Ministry of Finance has been increasing and is likely to continue,
especially in the areas of tax and customs collection and treasury operations
(for which there are eight posts) and public debt management (one post).
Assistance to the public debt management agency (CAA) began in 1979 when a
financial expert was hired to improve its internal accounting procedures; the



- 42 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 3
post was vacated in mid-1982 but a replacement has been requested. Finally,
the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation (FAC) is financing an accountant for
the agricultural produce marketing board (OPAM), as an integral part of the
technical assistance package being financed in part by the PPF (para. 35).
This position is to be maintained at least through 1983. The French govern-
ment also supports substantial education, including 300 scholarships per year
through 1980 and 500 in 1981. Total training assistance amounted to about
US$1.8 million in 1981.
Other
7.        Technical assistance to the public cereals marketing sector (and
especially to OPAM)--in addition to the three specialists being financed
by FAC and IDA--comes from France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the FAO.
Since 1970, approximately 40 work-years have been provided as well as several
short-term missions and diagnostic studies, with a significant increase after
the 1968-73 Sahelian drought. Most of this assistance was narrowly defined to
managing and protecting grain stocks, with occasional help in accounting and
commercial operations. Under its Security Stocks Project, begun in 1977, the
German government is financing three specialists--a planning economist, an
accountant, and a mechanic. This assistance is likely to continue and can
provide valuable support for the reform program. The United Kingdom's project
to protect OPAM stocks against pest and rodent attacks closed in 1981; it had
provided two technical specialists, as well as equipment and training. A
specialist to follow-up on the past project is expected to arrive in 1982.
Finally, the FAO is providing one work-year to develop training programs for
OPAM--which will help identify needs and set up courses, and a resident
coordinator (through the World Food Program) for the multi-donor assistance to
cereals marketing reform. Canada may also provide training funds for OPAM
staff, and higher level training is being provided by the USAID Leadership
Training Project.
8.        In addition to technical assistance already described, other donors
provide technical assistance for their projects, state enterprises and rural
development agencies, and training. Regarding training for example, the
European Development Fund (FED) provided about US$3 million for education
under its Fifth Replenishment. USAID has recently approved a four-year
project to train up to 60 Malians from both public and private institutions
at the Master's Degree level in economic development and planning, public
administration, and business management. For the first 15 trainees, about
half come from Government with the others from various para-public agencies,
including OPAM, IPGP, and certain state enterprises. The Canadian Aid Agency
(CIDA) recently approved a small program of assistance to the Ministry of
Plan, and the FED also finances two specialists in project analysis at the
Ministry of Plan, although these are currently seconded to the state consult-
ing agency, SNED. The FED program will end in 1982, however., and will be
replaced by one to provide specific, temporary support for studies undertaken
by SNED and the industrial promotion center (CEPI). Over the last several
years, the IMF has provided many work-months of technical assistance to



- 43 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 4
Ministry of Finance in fiscal affairs, including tax structures and consoli-
dation of budget funds. Finally, IDA has provided technical assistance to
teach and develop curricula for IPGP through its Second Education and Training
Project (Cr. 733-MLI)--5 work-years including 3 ILO specialists at a cost of
US$0.34 million--and its Industrial Sector Development Project (Cr. 986-MLI)--
1 work-year.



Annex V
Table 1
MALI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Functional Cost Breakdown of Project Components
(Before physical and price contingencies, in US$ thousands (except work months)) c/
Specialists              Training and                                         Operating Expenses                              Diagnostic
Component                           Work-months  Value a             Fellowships L/  Equipment          Supplies        Personnel         Other        Construction      Studies d/        Total
Cereals marketing                         72        684 (250)b/            60           23 (17)           13 (4)            22             86 (15)           -                -              888 (286)
Rural development agencies (ODR)          60        690                   180          tO8 (45)           19 (3)            23 (3)        129 (29)           -              505 (230)      1,654 (310)
State enterprises                         60        690                   180           81 (55)           18 (5)            30 (11)       124 (42)           -              295 (240)      1,418 (353)
Economic policy analysis and
data management                           48        552                   270          200                66                15            113                                 -            1,216
Civil Service Directorate (DNFPP)         36        406 (26) f/           180          250                50                11             43                -                -              940 (26)
Public debt agency (CAA)                   6         69                    90           25                 5                 2              7                -                -              198
Business management institute (IPGP)  36            414                   180          100                 7                11             43              650                -            1,405
Follow-up technical assistance
and studies e/                             -           -                    -            -                 -                 -              -                -                -              800
Project coordinating unit (PCU)           60        690                     -           35 (2)            40 (4)           110 (13)       110 (6)            -                -              985 (25)
Total                                    378      4,195 (276)           1,140          822 (119)         218 (16)          224 (27)       655 (92)         650              800 (470)    9,504 (1,000)
Notes
a/ At US$ 11,500 per work-month; estimation assumes all foreign specialists.
b/ 48 work-months at about US$8,500 (firm PPF contracts) and 24 at estimated work-month cost.
c Figures in parentheses are estimated amounts financed by advances from the PPF.
d/ Foreign and local consultant costs only, including fees, international travel and local subsistence costs.
a!  Of which lOG are tentatively allocated for preparation of follow-on project, 100 for cereals marketing studies,
and 50 for studies in each of the components for rural development agencies and the state enterprises sector.
f/ 3 work-months at US$26,000 (total) and 33 at estimated work-month cost.
j/ Includes value of allowances, indemnities, and salaries paid by government, roughly estimated at an average of
20 percent of training costs.
November 9, 1982



- 45 -                              ANNEX VI
Table 1
MALI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Analytic Breakdown of Costs by IDA and Government
IDA            Government    Total
Category                              Project    Local
----- US$ thousands ------------
Training
Business institute (IPGP)            783         325          117        1,225
Fellowships (all components)         697         253          190        1,140
Specialists (excluding IPGP,
PCU, and diagnostic studies)
Fees, travel, expenses             2,536         555            -        3,091
Support costs                          -         257          222          479
Diagnostic studies
(excluding equipment)                  605         256           78          939
Materials
Equipment (excluding IPGP
and PCU)                           492           -          195          687
Supplies (excluding IPGP,
PCU, and diagnostic studies)         -         120           38          158
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)        591         348           46          985
Follow-up technical assistance
and studies, to be identified        586         164           50          800
Base costs                           6,290       2,278          936        9,504
Physical contingencies                 469         111           26           606
Price contingencies                    911         330          136        1,377
Total Project Costs                  7,670       2,719        1,098       11,487






lBRD 16539
MALI                                                                           IS'
PURE RTEDS fRE ClPfSIOCTONS *|RR"  ;/0 A4ZsLG§                                                                                                                                                          -Z lERt$IAs  
RAE,HE REFEFEsENERPRT?PM
EARTHs ROADlS 
F . a7 iFV7TaFs Ft#0suhS]RUC ON M ¢ ,@S- t>¢i59@wr99   te2$t8tuTig1JwER E-.N.WI                                                                                                             L G E R       I A
E-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DS,.,D
EEM1RO' OF FE                                                          !
E.AV cEABLE R ERES l',JL  DEEMRER I                R                    j                                                                                                                             S
,-C                                                A AREAS
sO7    1.h NDT-OI                                N                                               risrz       
IRR SUTIRE /nFIIFOOrA                              A mR L                                                                                                          FER 
= ARPAOD/ROFESE  OLR jSr
R-G0N AL CIE TASS          
LEG ChIl AT IIdDAI ORIE'                                                                                                                                                       - - -,s_  - -j   
GUArIoNA                                                                               L                                  6                                                                   IRG   E  Rorv-   qr   3   LroMsDucroU I   E  R
jS/ \  r   x,._  zJ  :  BullE  /                                                        NAE L-                                                                                                                         Eproo
Y0      )  M   4   *   R   AMUA  5  >ns r.ed                  oo                                                                        if
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. '3 !O u25  RvoUr     
G    U  I N  E A.-,a°d N I_- r<\.  G ER
X ''8|V 0 R Y                                                                                                       0,  G H                      U I N' Ot      E  - W



