Cn M å N 08     CREDIT NUMBER 1307 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Management and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMEER 1307 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         C0       <   )             , 1982,
between the REPUBLIC OF MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 101. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, che several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the two project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchange of letters dated February 2, 1981 and
February 26, 1981, and June 15, 1981 and April 8, 1982 between
the Borrower and the Association;
(b) "Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit described
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, established by Law    No.
8219/PRM and operating under Decree No. 149/PG-RM of the
Borrower, dated July 5, 1982; and
(c) "IPGP" means the Institut de Productivite et de Gestion
Previsionnelle established by the Borrower in 1971.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various


﻿-2-
currencies equivalent to nine million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and out3tanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments paVable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1993, and ending
August 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2002, to be one-half of one pec cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, economic, administrative and technical prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  In order to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain in its Ministry of Planning
a Project Coordinating Unit consisting of a Coordinating Commit-
tee comprising representatives of the ministerial departments
benefitting from the Project and a Secretariat. The Secretariat
shall be headed by a qualified and experienced Project Coordina-
tor and shall function under terms of reference, and in accor-
dance with operating procedures, satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall assign to the Project Coordi-
nating Unit an adequate number of staff with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association including at least
one technical advisor and a training specialist, each to be
appointed no later than June 30, 1983; (ii) shall, during the
execution of the Project, exchange views with the Association


﻿-4-
before it makes any change affecting the membership of the
Coordinating Committee or of the Secretariat, or the office of
Project Coordinator; and (iii) shall prepare procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association for the use by the Project Coordinating
Unit in requesting any reallocation of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ such consultants,
experts and specialists as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association and, in the case of services costing the
equivalent of $25,000 or more or such other figure as the Asso-
ciation may stipulate, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Such consultants, experts and specialists shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrover undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request. For the purposes of this Section the term
"plan"  shall  include   the  training  programs  and  lists  of
participants of such programs required for the Project.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from        it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1983, furnish to the Association terms of reference showing the
details of how proceeds of the Credit are to be used for the
consultants', experts' and specialists' services and training
included in the Project, and for such other matters as may be
necessary to follow up the diagnostic studies provided for in
Parts B (2) and C (2) of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) continue to assign to
IPGP, during the period of executing the Project, an adequate
number of staff, including its Director, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) provide IPGP
with amounts sufficient to meet any operating deficit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1983 furnish to
the Association proposed terms of reference for the consultants,


﻿-6-
experts and specialists to be retained to assist in carrying out
Part D (1) of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall assign an adequate
number of qualified and experienced counterpart personnel to work
with the consultants, experts and specialists to be employed
under the Project.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall appoint officials who have
successfully completed training under the Project to appropriate
positions; and (ii) shall require every person undergoing such
training abroad to be employed in the service of the Government
or other public agency, on completing such training, for a period
of five years or a period twice the period of training, whichever
shall be the lesser.
Section 3.09. The program for all training and fellowships
included in the Project, including the criteria for the selection
of candidates and of locations, shall be approved by the Associa-
tion prior to confirmation by the Borrower.
Section 3.10. Prior to March 31, 1983 the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association draft terms of reference for consul-
tants' services to support the reform in cereals marketing under
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained by the Project Coordinating Unit, records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-7-
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 4.01 as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used to make payments for goods received,
or works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under this Agreement and
were used in carrying out the Project; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section  5.01.  The  following   events  are  specified  as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the Project Coordinating Unit has been duly
staffed, as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b) that terms of reference and operating procedures for
the Project Coordinating Unit, as provided in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, have been adopted by the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The date    (  L     -',     .'     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section     12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist're des Finances
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       972-559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly  authorized, have    caus.!d this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                490,000           80%
(2) Equipment and              440,000           95%
vehicles
(3) Consultants',            4,000,000           100% of foreign
experts' and                                expenditures
specialists'                                and 85% of local
services                                    expenditures
(4) Training and               890,000           100%
fellowships
(5) Operating expenses         450,000           75% of local
other than salaries;                        expenditures
supplies and mate-
rials
(6) Salaries and allow-        140,000           100%
ances of local con-
tractual personnel,
except those under
Category (3)
(7) Refunding of Project       950,000           Amount due under
Preparation Advance                          Section 2.02 (b)
(8) Unallocated              2,340,000
TOTAL    9,700,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (7) is
insufficient or in excess of the amount required, adjustment will
be made by allocations from or to Category (8).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $750,000, may be
made in respect to Categories 1 to 6 on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after September 1,
1982.
(b)  in respect of payments made for Part G of the Project
under Categories (1) through (6), until the Association has been
furnished with evidence that: (i) IPGP has put into effect a
reorganization plan satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) an


﻿- 12 -
experienced and qualified administrative and financial director
of IPGP has been appointed and all IPGP's staff vacancies have
been filled.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, -cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to help the Borrower: (i) in the
identification of improved public financial and economic poli-
cies; (ii) in the strengthening and improvement of the Government
institutions responsible for the elaboration and execution of the
said policies; and (iii) in the training of Malian civil servants
responsible for the better functioning of the improved institu-
tions, all with the assistance of consultants, experts and
specialists. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Cereals marketing
(1)  Strengthening the agencies of the Borrower responsible
for commerce on cereals marketing policy, especially the Cereals
Marketing Board (OPAM).
(2) The carrying out of studies relating to cereals market-
ing and training of civil servants and private merchants in
matters relating to cereals marketing.
Part B:   Rural Development Agencies (ODRs)
(1) The carrying out of a diagnostic study of the rural
development agencies of the Borrower with a view to: (a) analyz-
ing the policies and institutions operating in the rural devel-
opment sector; and (b) recommending changes that would help
increase the efficiency and the economic and financial viability
of the sector.
(2) Carrying out of such studies and training programs for
staff of the agencies concerned with rural development as would
facilitate the carrying out of a program to follow up such
diagnostic study.
Part C:   Public Company and State Enterprises Sector
(1) The carrying out of a diagnostic study of the Bor-
rowerts State enterprises sector with a view to examining the
internal and external constraints to increased effectiveness of
state enterprises.
(2) Carrying out of such studies and training programs for
staff of the governmental agencies and enterprises concerned with


﻿-14 -
the said sector as would facilitate the carrying out of a program
to follow up such diagnostic study.
Part D:   Economic Policy Analysis and Data Management
(1) Conducting an analysis of financial and economic
policies, by the National Planning Office (DNP).
(2) Training, procurement of equipment and operational
improvements in the National Office of Statistics and Data
Processing (DNSI), for the purpose of (i) helping the Borrower to
expand and improve its data-processing covering production,
prices, employment and other economic statistics and (ii)
improving national accounts.
(3) The design and establishment of a management informa-
tion system to improve the Borrower's data-processing operations,
and training of staff responsible for such operations.
Part E:   Personnel Management
The establishment by the National Office of Civil Service
and Personnel (DNFPP), of an efficient management information
system to ensure sound personnel management in government ser-
vices; purchase of necessary equipment; and training of staff in
such system and in the operation of equipment utilized therein.
Part F:   Public Debt Management
The improvement of communications between the Public Debt
Agency of the Borrower (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement), lenders
and  beneficiaries  of   external  public  debt;  acquisition   of
equipment and its use in debt management; and provision of a
staff fellowship and short-term training for public debt
management staff of the Borrower in such a system and in the
operation of such equipment.
Part G:   Management Training Institute (IPGP)
The improvement of the curricula and teaching methods of the
IPGP; provision of fellowships for the staff of the IPGP; and
construction and furnishing of classrooms and office space.


﻿- 15 -
Part H:   Related Activities
Carrying out of such additional studies and activities as
the Association and the Borrower shall agree are necessary for
the achievement of the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis -of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opprrtunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The          >wer shall provide the
necessary information to update sut   .ktice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, vehicles, supplies and furnishings, which after
grouping for the purpose of inviting bids, are estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for civil works, may
be procured on the basis of the competitive bidding procedures of
the Borrower.
2.   All contracts for data and information processing equipment
shall be awarded after direct competitive shopping including the
solicitation in each case of quotations from at least three
suppliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With  respect   to  all  contracts  estimated  to  cost   the
equivalent of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
cequest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 18 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


