Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9795-TUN Type: (SAR)
EXPERTON, / X35176 / H-4107/ EM2PH                  ReportNo.9795-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of October 1991)
Currency Unit            -           Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00                  -            TD 0.92
TD 1.00                  -           US$1.08
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CRU         Committee for University Improvement (Comitd de Renovation
Universitaire)
DAF         MES Administrative and Financial Department (Departement
Administratif et Financier)
ENS         Teacher Training College (Ecole Normale Superieure)
ENSET       Training College for Technical Teachers (Ecole Normale Superieure
d'Enseignement Technique)
EPA         Public Establishment with Administrative Purpose
(Etablissement Public a caractere administratif)
ETSL        Education and Training Sector Loan
FSR         Foundation for Scientific Research (Fondation pour la Recherche
Scientifique)
IST         Higher Technical Institute (Institut Sup6rieur Technique)
ISET        Higher Institute of Technology (Institut Superieur des Etudes
Technologiques)
MES         Ministry of Education and Sciences
(Ministere de l'Education Nationale et des Sciences)
PERL        Public Enterprise Restructural Loan
PNRU        National Program for University Improvement (Programme National de
Renovation Universitaire)
SAGES       Normative Resource Allocation System (Systeme d'analyse et de
gestion de l'enseignement sup6rieur)
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SIVP        Program financing internships in industry (Stages d'insertion dans
la vie professionnelle)
UEPP        MES Evaluation, Projects, and Programs Unit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUSIUC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION  CSTRUCUING PROJE
STAFF APPRAISLUREPOR
TAUSe Of Cone 
Loan Summary .
Basic Data                                                                               v
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER EDUCATION .
Background ........ 1
The Higher Educaion System.                                                              3
Major Issues in the Higher Education Sector.                                             6
A. Imbsance btween higher education output and labor market needs .6 
B. Low internal efficiency and the high cost per graduate.                          7
C. Overcentralizad management, and Inefficient distbution and use of available resour es.   9
The Governme's Setor Strategy .10
Expeience with Past Bank Lending .12
Rationale for Bank Involvement .13
IL THE PROJECT .14
Project Objectives and Scope .14
Project Description .14
A. The creation of Higher Institutes of Technology (ISETs) .15
B. The National Program for Universky Improvemernt (PNRU) .1
C. The strengthening of MES capacities and project management .20
111. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION .23
ProJect Costs .23
Project Financing .                                                                     26
Procurement ......  27
Disbursements ......  30
Implemenation and Management .                                                          31
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation .32
[V. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS .34
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED .35
ANNEX I:  STATISTICAL ANNEX .39
ANNEX II:      DESCRIPTION OF THE NEW TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTES (ISETS) .49
ANNEX III:     DEVELOPMENT OF THE ISET TEACHER TRAINING CAPACITY .59
ANNEX IV-   NATIONAL UNIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM .6
ANNEX V:  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT .70
ANNEX VI:  DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE .75
ANNEX VII:  BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN FILES.                                       76
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Tunleta in October, 1991. Hission
members wvr. William Experton (Mission Leads: and Education Econocdeit); Josephine Douek-Eykin (Science and
Teehnolowy Specialist); Claire Voltaire (Operations Analyst); Gustaaf Brent Van tampon (Consultant
Architect); Jacques Maseran (Consultant, Technical Educator) and GuyTllAin (Consultent. Adiinsetrator)
ZmaLliaafsSz: Willam Experton (M1H11); DivLsLon CnhL*: Andrew Rogerson (lMIPS); Drector: Pieter Bottelier
(MIl); Eg!r   rrLcs: Peter Hoock (APTD) Jail Salmi (PlEE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan Summary
Borrower:    Republic of Tunisia
A&2un&:       US$75 million equivalent
Terms:        17 years, including five years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
DescriRtion:  The proposed project aims at making the higher education system
more cost effective and responsive to the needs of the country.
More specifically it will:
(i)   diversify the higher education system in order to improve
the output of a trained technical and managerial labor
force;
(ii)  provide incentives to universities to revise curricula to
enhance the quality of teaching and learning, increase the
relevance of teacher training programs, reduce the average
duration of study, and improve internal efficiency;
(iii) strengthen the planning and managerial capacities of the
higher education system and implement a normative system for
resource allocation across and within decentralized higher
education institutions.
The main components of the project will be:
The creation of a new generation of Higher Institutes of Technology
(ISET).   These institutes would be geared towards labor market
needs and would offer short programs aimed at training technicians
and middle managers at a more effective cost per graduate. Five
ISETs would be developed in the main economic and industrial
regions (Tunis, Nabeul, Gabes, Sfax and Sousse), with specific
characteristics which represent a radical departure from the
conventional university framework: an enrollment limited to 1500
to 1800 students per ISET; an intensive program of about 2000 hours
including compulsory internships in businesses and selective
entrance requirements. Curricula would include disciplines related
to  industry  (e.g.  mechanical,   electrical  and  electronic
engineering, and maintenance) and service (e.g. management and
marketing) sectors adapted to local enterprises and regional
employment characteristics.   Their legal status would allow for
increased financial and administrative autonomy, participation of
employers in the management board, ability to charge fees for
services, recruitment of professors under fixed-term contracts and
offering of training contracts to enterprises.   To reduce the
dramatic shortage of technical teachers (1,100 positions in the



v ii -
existing institutions, of which 251 are foreign teachers) and
minimize the brain drain inharent to overseas-educated post-
graduates, a permanent training capacity will be developed in
Tunisia. It will train the required (600) technical teaching staff
for the ISEts under the project.
The creation of a National Program for University Improvement
(PNRU): This program would channel funds, through a competitive and
transparent process, towards existing universities with a view to
increasing their internal and external efficiency and improving the
quality of instruction and learning. These resources would be used
as an incentive for universities to reform their programs and
curricula. Sub-projects proposed by universities would be selected
by a pluridisciplinary committee (the Committee for University
Improvement, CRU). Resources would be allocated according to well-
defined selection criteria and operational guidelines included in
a procedural manual developed before appraisal and already used by
universities in a draft form. The selection criteria reflect the
main features of the Government reform program: new undergraduate
study programs, diversification of streams to increase career
options, improvement of secondary teachers training programs, and
reorganized doctoral studies.
The strengthening of the planning and managerial capacities of the
higher education system: Planning and management would be improved
at both MES and higher education institutions level. This would
involve: the design and implementation of a normative system for
resource allocation and of a performance-based budgetary allocation
system; the introduction of appropriate management information
systems, in particular with regards to student admissions and
records, facility utilization and course timetables; the
establishment of an evaluation body and the implementation of an
accreditation system for the higher education system; the training
of university administrative and management staff; and the
strengthening of the Ministry of Education and Sciences (MES)
organizational structure to implement the reform program, including
all project components.
Aengfits:    The project is expected to make higher education more cost-
effective and more consistent with the country's needs and
resources. An improved response from the higher education system
to the demands of the economy, i.e. producing graduates with the
appropriate skills at a lower cost, would lead to increased
productivity and growth.
Risks:        The success of the reform being implemented by the Government will
depend upon the ISETs' ability to fulfill their mandate as
originally laid out in their statute, as well as the willingness
of the university community to implement the reform program. These
risks have been reduced through extensive Government consultations
with the academic community since 1990 to ensure participation of



- iii -
all concerned parties in elaborating the objectives of reform and
the measures to be implemented. In addition, the project will
minimize the potential impact of these risks by: creating ISETs as
independent entities outside the university system, employing their
staff under new conditions of service and providing them with
appropriate training ; and using the University Improvement
componen; and the new budgeting procedures as incentives for
individual university departments to buy into the reform process.



-iv -
- - OT MILLION             -    U8$ MILUON
LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL
ESTIMATED COSTS
HIGHERINTITUTESOFTECHNOLOGY (ISET)
Program Ovp t                                 0.2      0.3      0.5     02       0.4      0.8
Conseructlon                                 23.3     10.5    34.1    25.3       11.5    37.1
Equipment & Ped.materala                      2.0     14.8    17.1      2.8      1B.$    15.8
Human Resourc" ODvelopment                    6.3     112      17.5     6.e      12.2    19.0
Sub-11aI            323      36.9     6.2    35.1       402     7812
NATIONAL PAORAM FOR
UNIVIERSTY IMPROVBJENT(PNRU)                 52       22.t    23.5      6.3     24.7    31.0
MANAGEMENT & PLANNING CAPACITIES
Reources allocation ysem                     012      0.2      0.4      0.2      0.2     0.5
Management and Maintenance system.           0.2       0.6     0.8      0.2      0.7     0.9
Evaluation                                   0.1       0.2     0.3      0.1      0.1     02
Management Training                          2.2      0.8      3.0      2.4      0.9     3.3
Project management                           o.e      0.4      1.2      0.5      0.5     1.3
Sub-to               3.4      22       6.6     3.7       2.4     6.1
mamma   mama  manmm   mamma   MAmNIa  =agog=
TotalSass Cogs                                41.5     61.5   103.3    45.1      Eli   112.3
PhyIca Contingencisa                         12        1.4     2.6      1.3      1.5     2.5
Pdoc Contngencies                            4.5       6.7    102       4.9      62     11.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           472      69.0   1161      51.3     75.0   126.3
FINANCING PLAN
Govenment                                     472               472     51.3              51.3
IBRD                                                   69.0    69.0              75.0    75.0
Todal        74                                         0 20 1162  51  7Z  120
|LOAN DISSURSEMENT SCHEDULE (US$ MILUON)
BFank FiaaYour                         93      94       95       90       97       Os      99
Annual                               5.5    12.5      15.5    19.5    14.0       7.0      1.0
Cumulatve                             8.6    15.0     33.5    63.0    07.0       74.0    75.0
|ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN              Not applicable
1 Ineluding US$ 5.6 mIlfln In tas and duts
Total may not add up due to rounding.



- v -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
Cuntry Data                                                          Base Xgal
Per Capita Income (US $) :                                        1,420   1990
Total Population (millions):                                        8.1   1990
Population Growth Rate (X) :                                        2.2   1989
Illiteracy (population over 10 years of age)                       37.1   1989
Nale Illiteracy Rate (males over 10 years of age):                 26.3   1989
Female Illiteracy Rate (females over 10 years of age):             48.1   1989
Urban population (X of total):                                       54   1989
Education Enrollment Data
Primary Enrollment (grades 1-6)                               1,397,408   1990/91
Lower Secondary Enrollment (grades 7-9)                         294,789   1990/91
Upper Secondary Enrollment (grades 10-13)                       190,996   1990/91
Net enrollment rate (age 6 to 13)                                 88.21   1990
Boys                            93.9X   1990
Girls                           82.3X   1990
Higher education:
Passing rate at the end of secondary (baccalaureat)                 29Z   1991
Number of baccalaureat holders:                                  17,821   1991
Higher education enrollment:                                     68,535   1990/91
Enrollment as percentage of age group 20 to 24:                    8.51   1990/91
Percentage of females in higher education:                        39.41   1990/91
Number of graduates of higher education:                          5,552   1990
Public Exoenditure in Education
Total Education budget as X total government budget:               17.9   1991
Total Education budget as X of GDP:                                 5.9   1991
Education recurrent budget as X of
government recurrent budget:                                    24.7   1991
Education investment budget as X
of government investment budget:                                 5.4   1991
Higher Education recurrent budget as 1 of
Education recurrent budget:                                     19.1   1991
Higher Education investment budget as 1 of
Education investment budget:                                    41.8   1991
Higher education total budget as X of
Government total budgz.t:                                        3.8   1991
Higher education total budget as 1 GNP :                            1.3   1991



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER EDUCATION
BACKGROUND
1.01        Tunisia is wurking to overcome the difficulties brought about in the
early 1980s when high levels of public expenditure growth and State regulation
coincided with falling revenues from oil exports. By 1986 the balance of payments
had reached a crisis state and, after a short period of demand restraint, the
Goveriment introduced reform policies which broadened into a wide-ranging
structural adjustment program. The government's strong commitment to this program
has been supported by the Bank through six adjustment operations - two
Agricultural Adjustment Loans (ASAL) in FY87 and FY89 (Lns. no. 2754 and 3078),
the FY87 Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, Ln. no. 2781), the
FY88 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL, Ln. no. 2962) the FY90 Public Enterprise
Restructuring Loan (PERL, Ln. no. 3109) and the FY92 Economic and Financial
Reform Support Loan (EFRSL) (Ln. no. 3424-TUN). Having corrected major
imbalances, the Government is confronting the problem of determining the
efficiency and level of investment needed to sustain an adequate growth rate,
while maintaining macroeconomic stability.
1.02        The structural reform program promotes efficiency and growth by
removing obstacles to competition (relaxation of domestic price controls,
replacement of import restrictions with tariffs, reduction of administrative
controls, tax reform, and liberalization of banking). The private sector is
expanding as a result of this liberalization, and small-scale industries have an
increasing need for a diversified and qualified labor force. Given Tunisia's
limited domestic market and the fact that the most obvious import substitution
industries are already well developed, the Government is actively pursuing an
export-driven growth strategy. Since 1986, export performance has been
remarkable, growing at, an average rate of 13.5X per annum. The impending
unification of Europe in 1992 and the recent changes in Central and Eastern
Europe have heightened the Government's concern for developing a well-educated,
highly skilled flexible labor force which will contribute both to creating a
manufacturing, processing and services base with internationally competitive
domestic enterprises, and to attracting foreign investment. The education and
training system will therefore play a major role in meet,ng tle challenge of a
rapidly changing economy.
1.03        Tunisia has invested heavily in its human resources, particularly in
family welfare, education and training. Progress is already visible in many
areas: between 1965 and 1989, infant mortality was more than halved from almost
160 to 52 per thousand, life expectancy at birth rose from 48 to 62 years, and
adult literacy rates increased from 15X to 62%. Tunisia intends to improve its
literacy rate even more during the 8th Plan by focussing its efforts on the rural
population, and more specifically on rural women. An active family planning
policy, carried out with Bank and USAID support since the 1960s, contributed to
a decline in the total fertility rate from an average of 7 children per woman in



1956 to 3.5 children per womat in 1989. As mortality also declined by 45%, the
population grew from 5.6 million in 1975 to 7.9 million in 1989, o- annual growth
rate of 2.5%. Tunisia has also achieved a remaikable quantitative increase in
school attendance.   In 1990/91, 1,398,119 children were enrolled in public
primary education (88.2% of the 6 to 13 year-old age group), 485,785 in public
secondary education, and 68,535 in higher education (8.5% of the 20 to 24 year.
old age group). The financial needs of its education and health sectors will
remain significant in the future if Tunisia is to sustain these efforts with a
population growth rate of 2.2% per annum.
1.04        Despite  these  remarkable  quantitative  achievements,   serious
shortcomings still exist. Only 1 in 3 children progresses beyond grade 6, 1 in
5 beyond grade 9, and 1 in 20 enters higher education.   In a cohort of 1000
children starting at the primary level, only 56 will reach higher education and
only 27 will complete higher education. The internal efficiency of the education
system is seriously impeded by a lack of facilities in secondary education and
the poor quality of programs.   Possession of a secondary school diploma
(baccalaur6at) automatically qualifies a student to advance ti higher education.
The number of qualified secondary school graduates (17,82' in 1991) has been
increasing at an average of 8% p.a. for the last four years a 'd will reach 40,000
in the year 2000. The objective of the Government is to increase by 2000 gross
higher education enrollment (including overage students) from 8.5% to 14% as a
share of the 20-24 year-old group, which implies an anticipated enrollment growth
rate of 7.8% p.a. for 1990-2000. The substantial growth of enrollment in higher
education has put pressure on public resources. The expanding gap between the
recurrent budget growth in real terms, of 4.1% p.a. between 1980 and 1988 and the
7.1% p.a. increase in enrollment over the same period has resulted in a
deterioration of students' learning and living conditions in most universities.
The anticipated enrollment growth rate of 8% p.a. for 1989-2000 makes urgent
action imperative. Containing expenditure through more cost-effective curricula,
cost-recovery measures, improvement in budget management and more effective
governance of universities is therefore essential.
1.05        The labor force has grown from 1.4 million in 1975 to almost 2
million in 1989, at an average annual rate of 2.7%. Even though this growth has
been slowing down since 1985 due to demographic momentum, it still outstrips the
population growth. However, the rate of job creation has slowed considerably from
47,000 per year in the first half of the 1980s to 39,000 per year between 1985
and 1989. The unemployment rate for job seekers aged 18 to 54 (316,000 workers),
which increased only slightly between 1975 and 1984, rose to 15.3% in 1989. The
unemployment rate for the younger age group (18-24) is as high as 30%. While
workers with a post-secondary education qualification still find employment more
easily than the less educated, their situation has also deteriorated over the
last 5 years. According to a 1989 survey, unemployed graduates numbered about
6,300 in 1990;  this total stuc'k is equivalent to the number of students
graduating aach year.   One reascn for this is that higher education is not
expanding in conjunction with labor market skill requirements. Tlis results in
an increasing mismatch between the type of training offer3d in universities and
the skills required to enter the job market.  Students' qualifications do not
match the skills demanded by potential employers.  This is especially so for
technicians, managerial staff and secondary school teachers.   In addition,



- 3 -
graduntes tend to enter the job market at levels and in sectors which do not
correspond to their expectations.
1.06        To support the overall adjustment process, the Government is engaged
in a program of far-reaching reforms of the education and training system, which
are being introduced in two phases. The first phase, supported by the Education
and Training Loan no. 3054-TUN (FY 89), is designed to expand education and
training and to improve their cost-effectiveness and consistency with the
country's medium-term needs. This will be achieved thzough three major policy
changes: (i) allocation of a larger share of resources to quality basic education
(grades 1-9); (ii) improvement in the quality and relevance of upper secondary
education (grades 10-13) while better controlling access; (iii) promotion of pre-
and in-service training in collaboration with employers in the productive sectors
as well as resource mobilization. Measures have also beea taken to increace
placement into existing jobs, particularly for primary and secondary school drop-
outs (Employment and Training Fund, Loan no. 3255-TUN).
1.07        The second phase ci: the reform, initiated by the 1989 law on Higher
Education and Scientific Research, regrouped faculties and institutions under the
authority of six universities and put in place more democratic management
structures.  It will be suppo- ted by the proposed project. It is designed to
restructure higher education to improve the quality of education and its
responsiveness to the needs of the country, to increase its cost-effectiveness,
and to improve the planning and management capacities of Ministry of Education
and Sciences (MES) and educational institutions. This would be achieved by:
(i) creating Higher Institutes of Technology (ISET) geared towards labor market
needs and offering cost-effective, shorter duration programs aimed at producing
technicians and middle managers; (ii) enhancing the quality and relevance of
existing university programs; (iii) developing a budgetary and resource
allocation system which would provide incentives for efficiency and, in the
context of greater institutional autonomy, the development of managerial
capacity.
tHE HIGHER EDUCATION SYSTEM
1.08        Since independence in 1956, Tur.isia has placed high priority on its
human resources and has made considerable progress in developing its higher
education system.   Since the creation in 1960 of the "Tunisian University",
enrollment grew from 2,500 to 68,535 students. In 1990, 5,552 students graduated,
compared to less than 900 in 1970. A sizeable full-time academic staff of about
3,900 now exists, of which 87% are Tunisian nationals. It is estimated that 40%
of enrollment are first-generation university students (i.e. whose parents hold
no university degrees). Women represent 39.4% of total higher education
enrollment. The percentage of women differs significantly from one discipline to
another: women represent 48.6% of enrollment in Humanities, 37.9% in Law,
Economics and Administration, 31.8% in Fundamental Sciences, 51.3% in Paramedical
and Medical Sciences and only 17% in Technical Sciences. This distribution is
largely determined by enrollment rates in secondary education where girls
represent 42.5% and by their low participation rates in disciplines which
emphasize mathematics (37.2% in Math-Sciences, 26.6% in Math, 22.4% in Industrial
Technics). Despite a substantial growth in enrollment during the last ten years



- 4 -
(7.1% p.a. for the period 1980-1989), enrollment in higher education represetits
only 8.5S of the 20-24 year-old age group and there is increasingly strong social
pressure for access to higher education. To accommodate this, the Government
plans to expand enrollment from the present level to 145,000 students by the vear
2000.
1.09        The   higher   education   system   cu.rently   consists   of   six
multidisciplinary universities comprising 19 faculties and 44 schools and
institutes (see Asnex I, table 1). Four universities are serving the Tunis and
North areas (Tunis I, II, III, and the University of Zitouna) and receive 70% of
the students; 16% of the students are enrolled at the "Central University" in the
Sousse and Monastir area; and the 'Southern University" covering the Sfax, Gabbs
and Gafsa regions represents 14% of total enrollment.   The distribution of
enrollment in the five major discipline areas is as follows: Fundamental Sciences
14.6%; Humanities 28%; Medical studies 1z.2%; Law, Economics and Administration
30%; and Technical Sciences 14.4% (see Anne:; I, table 2).
1.10        The higher education system has two types of programs:  (a) two to
three-year programs of post-secondary studies in institutes leading to a higher
technician diploma; and (b) programs delivered in faculties and consisting of (i)
a four-year program in faculties divided into two parts of t4o years duration
each (first and second cycles) and leading to a master's degree (maitrise); (ii)
a two-year post-graduate program leading to a post-graduate diploma (Dipl6me
d'Etudes Approfondies, DEA); and (iii) a research program which can lead,
depending on the subject, to a third cycle doctorate and/or the State Doctorate
which is more theoretical. Medical studies last a minimum of seven years, and
engineers have four- (ingenieur d'application) or six-year (ing6nieur d'etat)
training programs. All university diplomas are awarded nationally. There is at
present no national system for monitoring and evaluating the programs of study.
1.11        The  posse.sion  of  a  seco-Aary  school  diploma  (baccalaureat)
automatically  qualifies  students  for       place  in  higher  education.  The
baccalaureat is selective; the average -access rate during the last five years
was about 30% [28.21 in 1991 (36.7% in the public sector, 10.8% in private
schools)]. A centralized computer system allocates students to disciplines and
establishments according to their subject-weighted baccalaur4at results, their
preferences (three choices) and the size of the student intake in each
institution. This selection process, based mainly on mathematics, results in a
preferential hierarchy of disciplines and institutions: the best students are
attracted to disciplines which offer the best prospects in the labor market, such
as medicine, engineering, or management, in establishments with fixed quotas for
entry. The system is rigid but transparent. Fifty-five percent of the candidates
are given their first choice, 30% their second or third choice, and 15X are not
given any of their choices. As a result, they end up in faculties teaching the
less valued disciplines such as social sciences or humanities, which are already
overcrowded. They are therefore not motivated and have low job prospects.
1.12        The higher education system is financed entirely through public funds
and its programs are under the authority of the MES. However, about 20 schools
or institutes (which enrolled some 3,000 students in 1989/1990) in specific
professional areas such as telecommunications, agriculture, music and aeronautics
are managed by their parent ministry. The administration of higher education



remains highly centralized. The MES is responsible for planning all aspects of
higher education including budgetary allocation, administration, management,
pedagogy, setting staff salaries and allocating assignments to the various
institutions, as well as student services.
1.13        At present, students pay practically no tuition fees (DT 2.5 per
year) and all financing comes from the Government budget. The share of the higher
education recurrent budget in the Government budget has remained virtually
unchanged over the last five years. In 1989, it represented 19X of the total
education budget and more than 41 of the Government budget. Salaries represent
49.2% of the total recurrent budget, while 15.71 is allocated to institutions for
their operating expenses such as library books, classroom supplies, and
utilities, and for purchasing small items of equipment and building maintenance
(see Annex I, pie chart 1). The remaining 29.2% cover student support in terms
of scholarships and payments for board and lodging.
1.14        Student service expenditures cover cafeteria and boarding costs
(which represent 10% of total operating budget), scholarships (16%) and loans and
miscellaneous grants and services (3%). Cafeteria services are highly subsidized
and available to all students; the price paid by the student represents an
estimated 15X of their real cost. Housing is available, for a limited duration
(3 years for male students, 4 years for female students), to students who qualify
according to criteria based on distance and parents' income. The share of the
total budget devoted to scholarships is declining compared with its 1984 level
(291).  Scholarships are available for students from families with an annual
income equal to or less than 1,450 DT, a figure which is slightly below the net
salary of a primary education teacher with one child. About 451 (30,000 students
locally and 1,655 abroad in 90/91) of the total enrollmeut benefit from
scholarships. Scholarships amount to 40 DT per month (of which charges for meals
and boarding absorb about 60%) and are reduced to 32 DT if the student repeats
a year. Post-graduate scholarships amount to 140 DT per month while the average
overseas scholarship is 400 DT per month. In 1987, a loan system was set up by
the MES to assist students with the payment of their living expenses. The annual
income ceiling for eligibility is 4,200 DT. The loan is 400 DT per year with a
2.5X interest rate. It is reimbursed in monthly installments representing 151 of
the student's salary after one year in the job market. The loan system is run by
the MES rather than the banking system. Its impact cannot be evaluated yet since
none of the 4,623 students presently receiving loans has graduated yet, and no
repayments have fallen due.
1.15        All university staff are civil servants. Academic staff are employed
in one of four grades: assistant, maitre assistant, maltre de conference and
professeur.   To enter the first grade of assistant, one must hold a DEA.
Promotion to the second grade (maitre assistant) is dependent on completion of
a third cycle doctoral thesis and on 2 years experience. Maitre de conference
are selected among state doctorate holders. Attaining the most senior academic
appointment, professor, requires at least four years tenure in the previous
grade. Titular professors are tenured and attached to a specific university.
Conditions of service for academic staff va-;y according to grade and are based
on the number of lectures or practicals to be given each week. While all grades
are expected to do research, the system offers few incentives in that regard.
For the two senior grades (maitre de conference, professor), this figure is four



- 6 -
and a half hours of lectures per week; maitre assistants are required to deliver
nine hours of practical or similar work and the assistants 13 hours. Currently
the academic year is 27 weeks.
MAJOR ISSUES IN THE HIGHER EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    Imbalance between higher education output and labor
market needs
1.16        The  university  system,  which  offers  non-specialized  tralning
programs, is not sufficiently diversified to provide students with the knowledge
and skills required by the labor market.  This is one of the major causes of
current graduate unemployment (6,300 in 1990), which mainly affects students from
standard academic programs. Seventy percent of students are currently enrolled
in academic four-year undergraduate programs in traditional faculties whose main
purpose is to prepare students for post-graduate studies. Only 30% are enrolled
in vocational programs such as health, engineering, agriculture, commerce and
other highly specialized fields. There is little interaction between employers
and the higher education system, as exemplified by the low level of contract
activity between higher education establishments and industry and commerce, be
it for research, problem solving or training.   Although university statutes
require the participation of non-academics on their governing councils, the
influence of employers on the design of new programs remains limited. There have
been no tracer studies to determine the means of enhancing the employment
prospects of university graduates.   In addition, there is no student career
counselling within the universities. The lack of available information on the
labor  market,   the   rigidity   of   the   reorientation   system   and   the
compartmentalization of programs prevent students from adapting their studies to
the needs of the market.   There are very few resources available to inform
students of the needs of the labor market and no possibility for them to choose
between options in the program so as to reorient their studies accordingly.
Finally, the centralization of the system further impedes dialogue between
employers and the higher education system.
1.17        The majority of higher education curricula are biased towards
academic knowledge and, as a result, the high demand of the private sector for
technicians and managerial staff remains unsatisfied. Higher education programs
and output remain mainly oriented towards meeting public administration needs,
though its share of job creation is decreasing and now represents only 20% (in
1989, 9,000 new jobs were created in the civil service of which 7,200 were in the
MES).   The private sector represents 80% of job creation of which industry,
services, construction and public works and agriculture represent 34%, 41X, 3.61
and 1.4% respectively. The most dynamic sectors are trade and services, tourism,
textiles, chemicals and diversified industries in mechanics and electricity.
Accountancy, management, marketing, computer and office technology, industrial
maintenance, mechanical engineering, electricity and electronic engineering are
skills for which there is a high unsatisfied demand. In 1990-1991, only 1050
students graduated with a management related specialty, 698 with an engineering
degree and 985 as technicians.   The high labor market demand for qualified
managers and technicians is confirmed by information collected from the following
sources during project preparation: (i) a study on "The training of technicians



in Tunisia" financed by the fifth Education Project (Ln. no. 2230-TUN); (ii) a
pre-feasibility study on ISETs, carried out in 1990 and including 50 of the main
industrial and commercial employers in Tunisia; and (iii) an analysis of the 1990
Employment Survey and the results of the Program Financing Internshlps in
Industry (SIVP). Despite the unreliability of long-term employment forecasting
and cross-country occupational profile comparisons, it should be noted that
Tunisian industry and service sectors have a very low percentage of professionals
(5.6%) (administrative staff (4.1%), technicians and engineers (1.3%), and
marketing staff (0.2%)) compared to OECD averages, which indicates a considerable
potential for skill upgrading over time.
1.18        The higher education system has not been able to satisfy the high
demand for qualified secondary school teachers in certain disciplines. Until
last year, secondary school teacher training took place in the three teacher
training colleges. These colleges, "Ecoles Normales Superieures" (ENS), were
responsible for teacher training in math and sciences (Bizerte), arts and
humanities (Sousse) and technical subjects (ENSET in Tunis). A review of their
operations by the ministry showed that the curriculum and delivery methods were
often irrelevant and obsolete and, compared with total enrollment, very few
students completed their degree. As a result, the number of graduates produced
was insufficient; in 1988/89, 58 graduated from the Bizerte ENS, 61 from the
Sousse ENS and 122 from ENSET Tunis. This is completely inadequate compared with
970 new unfilled positions for the same budget year.  As a result, secondary
school teachers had to be recruited from subject specialist university
undergraduates with no training in pedagogical skills.  It is estimated that at
present 50% of secondary school math teachers and 75% of French teachers are not
fully qualified for the posts they hold; other subjects are similarly deficient.
To keep pace with the expected increase in secondary education enrollment
resulting from the basic education reform, improved access to general secondary
education and the phasing out of MES technical education, the MES plans to
recruit an average of 1,320 teachers per year for literary subjects and 720 for
sciences for the period 1990-96. In the present context, this would result in a
severe shortage of qualified teachers, estimated at 1400 in French, 900 in
mathematics, 600 in Arabic and 400 in history and geography for the period 1990-
96.   Urgent action is therefore needed to increase the system's internal
efficiency to train a larger number of qualified teachers.
B.    Low internal efficiency and the high cost per graduate
1.19        The internal efficiency of the higher education system is very low
and is one of the major causes of the high cost of producing graduates. Upon
entry to a faculty, undergraduates follow a four-year program which is not
diversified enough to allow the rapid integration of students into the labor
market. Of 1000 first-year students, 430 drop out during the first two years
(first cycle), a further 98 in the second two years (second cycle), and, of the
remainder, 150 obtain a higher technician diploma or a paramedical diploma, and
322 become graduates (Annex I, chart 2).  It is estimated that repeaters and
drop-outs inflate the cost of producing a graduate by 120% on the average (99%
in technical sciences, 34% in medical sciences, 164% in fundamental sciences,
192% in humanities, and 130% in social sciences) (see Annex I, table 7). This
inefficiency can be attributed to: (i) excessive uniformity and rigidity in



- 8 -
course design; (ii) inadequate curricula and teaching methods; (iii) the
unavailability of suitable academic staff; and (iv) insufficient complementary
resources including libraries, computers and technical equipment.
1-20        The absence of a formal system for evaluation, review and revision
of existing curricula and methods of delivery has led to excessively unlform
undergraduate course design and inadequate curricula and teaching methods. As
a result, existing programs are not diverse enough to meet the different
expectations of the students nor to provide them with the knowledge and skills
required by the job market. There is little preparation for the world of work
either in the curriculum content or in the conditions of service and activities
of the academic staff. The university year lasts 27 to 32 weeks. Apart from
their required teaching time, teachers have little contact with the students.
Obligations for research and other publications, cortract work, or administrative
and management tasks are not monitored. Teaching methods are further adversely
affected by insufficient investment in physical resources, resulting in
deficiencies in the facilities and in the learning experience of the majority of
undergraduates - book stocks and computer availability are notable examples.
1.21        The higher education system has been unable to recruit sufficient
qualified teachers to fill its vacant positions. In universities, of the 603
posts created in 1989, only 301 were filled.  Shortages are reported in the usual
disciplines of computer science and management as well as math, English, Arabic
and economics.  The low availability of academic staff is due mainly to the very
low doctoral studies output and a mismatch between the supply of academic staff
and excessively high qualifying standards for academic appointments. The salary
and conditions of service of university teaching staff are considered attractive
compared to other careers. However, the differential in salaries between the
grade of "assistant" and that of a "maitre assistant" is an insufficient
incentive. In 1988/89, only 36 doctoral theses were successfully presented, of
which only two (these d'4tat) qualified the candidates for the grade of
professor. While the overall student: staff ratio of 16:1 and the percentage of
senior appointments (21%) compare favorably to international norms, they vary
widely among institutions and disciplines. There is one teacher for every eight
students in technical sciences, 1 for every 23 in humanities, one for every 30
in social sciences, one for every eight in medicine, and one for every fifteen
in fundamental sciences. In some overcrowded institutions, the student:teacher
ratio can be much less favorable: in the Faculty of Law and Political Sciences
of Tunis, the ratio is one teacher for every twenty-eight students, it is one for
every thirty-two in the Faculty of Law in Sousse (see percentages of qualified
staff by disciplines (Annex I, tables 7 and 8)). In addition, humanities and,
to some extent, social and technical sciences have an insufficient number of
senior staff (Humanities: 11.7%; Social Sciences: 14.8%; and technical sciences:
15.7%).
1.22        Present physical resources are insufficient to provide the student
population with an adequate learning environment.   With an average of 8.27
m2/student, building facilities fall within international norms. However, there
are large disparities in available space or space allocated between institutions
for the same disciplines: in humanities it varies from 1.23 to 12.28, in social
sciences from 2.96 to 7.88, in fundamental sciences from 3.35 to 18.41, in



- 9 -
technical sciences from 2.77 to 42.94, in medical sciences from 4.43 to 26.38.
In addition, the use of building facilities could be optimized by improved
scheduling and the extension of the academic year. Maintenance of buildings is
insufficient and, as a consequence, many buildings need to be repaired (a survey
has been made during project preparation to appraise the amount of rehabilitation
needed). However, the main constraint to pedagogic improvement is the very low
level of available equipment.   There are few open-access libraries, and the
number of volumes per student is absurdly low, as is the supply of basic study
facilities - desks, tables and lights.  Most existing technical equipment is
obsolete; therefore, the science and engineering students are certainly not being
trained for today's world. Previously, strong links with higher education and
research centers overseas had helped mitigate these deficiencies. However, with
the increase in the number of students, this can no longer be an automatic
solution to resource deficiencies. The absence of adequate maintenance programs
and spare parts budgets further serves to diminish the utility of some equipment.
C.    Overcentralizedmanagement. inefficient distribution and
use of available resources
1.23        The Higher education system is highly centralized and lacks the
flexibility needed to respond efficiently to the needs of the economy. The 1989
law created universities as autonomous and decentralized entities and reinforced
the decision-making mechanisms to increase the participation of all concerned
parties at the university level.   Through these measures, the MES aims at
addressing the management issues existing at the following levels:
(i)   At the central level: The daily management tasks generated by
enrollment growth overshadow the planning, quality and output
monitoring,  and  policy  formulation  functions.    The  permanent
professional staff of the Ministry is too small to handle this
increased work load and the current practice is to second staff into
the ministry from academic posts. In addition, some functions, such
as student orientation and career counselling, pedagogic evaluation,
maintenance of .acilities and equipment, pedagogic research and
program development, are nonexistent or insufficient and need to be
strengthened.
(ii)  At the university level:  The recent creation of universities (law
of 1989) as institutional intermediaries between the MES and the
faculties, institutes and schools is a first step towards
decentralization of responsibilities and greater efficiency.
However, their functions, staffing and links with the MES and the
faculties, schools and institutes remain to be defined.
(iii) At the faculty, school and institute level: Individual institutions
lack the financial, managerial and academic autonomy that would
permit them to adapt quickly to a changing environment and improve
their efficiency.   Their entire staff is managed at the central
level by MES. Individual institutions have no direct management of
the external resources they could generate from research or training



- 10 -
contracts.   This is a disincentive to improving performance and
efficiency, seeking additional funding, or taking any initiative
involving changes in curricula or use of available resources.
1.24        Facilities, equipment, human resources and recurrent budgets are
allocated largely by extrapolation of past prac-1ces. Allocations do not take
into account policy changes, reward highly performing institutions or sancti.on
poor performers. There are no monitoring tools on which decision makers could
rely to reorient the system toward more cost-effective training or to correct
disparities, or which could take into account sector-specific factors such as
sharp rises in enrollments, research objectives or pedagogic enhancements.
Consequently, disparities among institutions for the same kind of training are
sometimes substantial and lead to inadequate distribution of scarce resources.
THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR STRATEGY
1.25        The Government is carrying out a substantial investment program whose
main characteristics are to develop Tunisia's human resources potential and
increase social mobility. The Government intends to increase the share of gross
higher education enrollment in the 20-24 year-old group from 8.5% to 14X in 2000,
which implies an anticipated enrollment growth rate of 7.8% p.a. for 1990-2000.
To achieve a sustainable rate of expansion of higher education within the
constraints of public resources while improving its responsiveness to the needs
of the country, the Government is committed to progressively restructuring and
diversifying the higher education system.  Within universities, it proposes to
renovate programs and curricula so as to increase the quality and reduce the
average cost per graduate; outside of the university system, it intends to create
more cost-effective and vocational-oriented institutions.
1.26        As a first step, in July 1989 the Government passed a law aimed at
reorganizing the Higher Education and Scientific research system. This law was
to serve as the framework for reform implementation, to promote a more autonomous
management of institutions, and to facilitate diversification of the system to
make it more flexible and responsive to its environment. As mentioned in para.
1.09, six universities were created from existing faculties, schools and
institutes as an intermediate planning level. Some of ministries' current
manaement functions will be transferred progressively to these universities.
These newly created universities are run by University Councils composed of
staff representatives elected by each dependent institution, representatives of
the economic, social and cultural community designated by the Minister and
student representatives.   The President of the Council is appointed by the
President upon recommendation of the Minister. Each faculty is run by a Council
and its dean elected for three years. Directors of Schools or Institutes are
appointed by the President upon recommendation of the Minister and after
consultation with the teaching staff. In the context of its Eighth Plan, the MES
will progressively redistribute administrative functions between the HES and the
universities and strengthen their management capacities. This law also included
the creation of the Foundation for Scientific Research as an independent entity
with the status of a public commercial and industrial body. Its mandate is to
be accountable and responsible for the allocation of investment and operative



- 11 -
funds, monitoring their use and the outcome of projects they support against
agreed research priorities.
1.27        A consultation process, initiated by the MES, to define structural
changes in curricula and new program contents in all the main disciplines was
launched at national level in July 1990. To this effect, 16 commissions were
created and have presented their conclusions to the MES.  A document will be
issued by the MRS during the first semester of 1992 describing the main proposed
changes in curricula and programs.   Some of these changes are already being
implemented in some disciplines: (i) in engineering schools, the curriculum has
been modified to a three-year program and students are required to complete
successfully a two-year preparation program prior to applying for a place in
these schools; (ii) secondary school teachers are no longer trained in specific
teacher training institutions (Ecole Normale Superieure, ENS), but in faculties
through a specific two-year option in the second cycle, which includes
pedagogical and discipline-related studies; and (iii) in technical studies, a new
generation of educational institutions called ISETs is being created to train
technicians and middle managers for manufacturing and service industries, in
short programs of five semesters of study (see description in para. 2.04).
Twelve institutions would be developed within the next 10 years, and five have
been programmed in the Eighth Plan (1992-1996).
1.28        In universities, curricula and programs in all disciplines will be
progressively diversified by: (i) reorganizing the first two years of study; (ii)
introducing an orientation process upon entry into the second cycle, and creating
options leading to different ranges of careers, research, teaching and non-
academic jobs in industry and services; (iii) reorganizing the third cycle and,
in particular, the intermediate diploma (DEA) and introducing a single thesis
(instead of the present two).   The existing programs will be progressively
strengthened and redesigned in order to improve the quality and occupational
relevance of education.   In some institutions, the current exam system of a
single final set of exams will be replaced by a credit accumulation system.
Equipment and pedagogical materials will be improved. Training will be made more
cost-effective by increasing the duration of the academic year and improving the
condition of services of teaching staff. The educational institutions will have
more flexibility to change their programs through an accreditation system. An
evaluation body will be created to monitor and evaluate the efficiency of
programs. Educational institutions will have the possibility of employing part-
time associate professors and professionals under temporary contracts.
1.29        The growth of expenditures will be restrained mainly by:  (i)
restructuring and diversifying programs in universities in order to increase
internal efficiency and reduce the cost per graduate and (ii) creating ISETs
where the anticipated cost per graduate will be half of the average actual cost
per graduate in the university system. In addition, the following actions will
be  taken:  (.)  resources  (facilities  and  teaching  positions)    will  be
progressively redistributed among universities according to established norms so
as to avoid underutilization of resources; (ii) a new norm-based funding system
will be used as an incentive to promote more cost-effective programs; (iii) a
student loan scheme will be developed and scholarships targeted towards students
from underprivileged groups; to that end, the ceiling for scholarship eligibility



- 12 -
has not been raised since 1989, leading to a progressive shift from scholarships
towards student loans.
EXPERIENCE WITH FAST BANK LENDING
1.30        Since 1962, IDA has committed 10 credits to Tunisia amounting to
US$75.2 million, and the Bank has committed 85 loans amounting to US$2,318.5
million, both net of cancellations. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and important policy changes and institutional improvements have
been achieved. The pace of disbursements has been accelerating.   Past Bank
lending emphasized support for long-term investments in infrastructure, social
development and, more recently, agriculture and industry. As of April 30, 1991,
the sector share of Bank Group commitments was as follows: agriculture - 23.5X;
industry and energy - 23.8%; transport and urban infrastructure - 30.31; human
resources - 10.3%; and non-sector lending - 12.1X.
1.31        Adjustment lending to Tunisia started in FY87. A first Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, Loan 2754-TUN), approved by the Board in September
1986, supported the Government's sector reform program and focused on prices,
public investment, and support services. An Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, Loan 2781-TUN), approved by the Board in January 1987,
focused mainly on import tariffs and price control. A Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL, Loan 2962-TUN), approved in June 1988, supports the Government's medium-
term macroeconomic program and its measures to liberalize trade, decontrol
prices, increase the efficiency of financial intermediation, and reform taxation.
A Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-II, Loan 3078-TUN), approved
in June 1989, follows up on the measures undertaken under ASAL-I and focusses
primarily on further liberalizing the agriculture sector and strengthening
essential support services. A Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL, Loan 3109-
TUN), approved in July 1989, supports efforts to institute reforms in public
enterprise management, to restructure some major loss-making enterprises, and to
divest assets which can be transferred to the private sector.   Finally, the
Economic and Financial Reform Support Loan (Ln. 3424-TUN), approved on December
12, 1991, is supporting (i) the liberalization of the economy through external
trade and price reforms; (ii) the promotion of financial markets to bring bank
regulations to international standards; (iii) improvements in the efficiency of
the special incentives to economic activities; (iv) reform of the social security
system; and (v) the establishment of coordinated external debt management.
1.32        The Bank strategy to improve the efficiency of public institutions
and thereby reduce their resource needs while improving services applies
particularly to its lending in the human resources sector.   Bank lending to
Tunisia has evolved from projects focussed on specific sub-sectors in education
and health to projects building on the overall framework of public finance
discipline and enterprise reform pursued in the SAL. The very first Bank loan
in education was made in Tunisia in FY63. These first projects (two credits and
four IBRD loans) supported the Governments's programs to improve primary and
secondary schooling, teacher training, and formal and non-formal trade training
for skilled workers and to strengthen family planning and maternal and child
care.   The more recent projects support far-reaching systemic reforms.   The



- 13 -
Education and Training Sector Loan (ETSL, Loan 3054-TUN), approved in June 1989,
entails the restructuring of the education and training system so that a much
larger number of children would benefit from sound education and training,
helping to prepare them for active careers in a fast-changing economy. It also
includes the development of pre-service and in-service training in collaboration
with companies in the productive sectors, and mobilization of additional
resources for training. The Employment and Training Fund (Ln no. 3255-TUN) which
became effective in FY91, aims at (i) accelerating the adaptation of the labor
force to rapidly changing job patterns and (ii) developing in-company training
activities. The Population and Family Health project, which has been approved
in FY91. will contribute to Tunisia's efforts to control its demographic growth
through an integrated approach of family planning, maternal and child health, and
bas'c health care delivery. Finally, the Hospital Restructuring Support Project,
which was approved in FY91, will address major efficiency and service quality
issues in the health sector and help alleviate the heavy burden imposed on public
resources.
1.33        Past Bank involvement in Tunisia's human resources sectors has shown
the need to focus on quality in education and improving government expenditure
patterns.    Implementation  of previous  projects  has  shown  that  the main
constraints relate to: (i) setting up a strong full-time coordination and
implementation unit; (ii) emphasizing institution building; and (iii) improving
the flexibility of institutional arrangements. This project will specifically
address these issues in supporting a qualitative reform including a wide-ranging
institutional building component.
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.34        The Bank's advice has been instrumental in helping the Tunisian
Government to design the two main institutional elements of this strategy: an
incentive mechanism to encourage reform of existing courses, and market-friendly
governance arrangements for new institutions. Continued involvement will be
essential to launch, implement, and monitor them. This effort will also
complement Bank support for the reforms initiated in primary and secondary
education (FY 89 Education and Training Sector Loan, Loan no. 3054-TUN) and the
measures taken to increase labor mobility (Employment and Training Fund, Loan no.
3255-TUN). In particular, improved efficiency in higher education will reduce the
shortage of qualified secondary school teachers. More broadly, the proposed
project complements the macroeconomic reforms already introduced, with Bank
support, to improve the competitiveness of an increasingly outward-oriented
economy.



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      The project supports the government reform program to restructure and
diversify higher education as described in para. 1.28-1.33.  Translating the
Government reforms into specific policies to be implemented as part of the
proposed project implies: (i) creating new institutions endowed, through an
appropriate legal and organizational framework, with the needed administrative
and managerial capacities and accountability; (ii) reviewing, revising and
restructuring university curricula and programs; and (iii) reconsidering resource
allocation mechanisms among institutions.
2.02        PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE:  The proposed project aims at making
the higher education system more responsive to the country's needs, while at the
same time being more cost-effective. Specifically, the project would:
(i)   diversify the higher education system in order to improve the output
of a trained technical and managerial labor force;
(ii)  provide incentives to universities to review and revise curricula in
order to enhance the quality of teaching and learning (especially
with regard to practical work, student-centered and experiential
learning), increase the relevance of teacher training programs,
improve the internal efficiency of the educational system, and
reduce the average duration of study; and
(iii) improve the distribution and use of resources in line with set
strategies through the implementation of a normative system for
resource allocation and the development of a new management system
to suit the needs of more autonomous higher education institutions.
2.03        PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The main components of the project would be:
(i)   The creation of a new generation of Higher Institutes of Technology
(ISET).   These institutes would be distinct from universities,
geared towards labor market needs and would offer short-term
programs aimed at training technicians at a more effective cost per
graduate. Five ISETs would be developed under the project, with
specific characteristics in common (size, duration and content of
programs,   student  selection,   private  sector  participation,
management, and teaching staff conditions of employment). Curricula
would include disciplines related to the industry (mechanical,
electrical and electronic engineering, and maintenance) and service
(e.g. management and trade) sectors adapted to local enterprises and
regional development characteristics. They would have a customized
legal status which would allow for increased financial and
administrative autonomy, participation of employers in the
management board, ability to charge fees for services, recruitment
of professors under fixed-term contracts and offering training
contracts to enterprises. To reduce the dramatic shortage of
technical teachers (1,100 positions in existing institutions, of
which 25X are filled by foreign teachers) and minimize the brain



- 15 -
drain inherent in overseas-educated post-graduates, a permanert
training capacity will be developed in Tunisia to train 600
technical teaching staff for the ISET under the project.
(ii)   The creation of a National Program for University Improvement
(PNRU): This program would channel funds, through a competitive and
transparent process, towards universities with the goal of
increasing their internal and external efficiency and improving the
quality of instruction and learning. These resources would be used
as an incentive for universities to reform their programs and
curricula. Sub-projects proposed by universities would be selected
by a pluridisciplinary committee (the Committee for University
Improvement, CRU) and resources allocated according to well-defined
selection criteria and operational indicators reflecting the main
features of the Government reform program.
(iii)   The strengthening of the planning and managerial capacities of the
higher education system: Planning and management would be improved
both at the MES and educational institutions levels.  This would
involve: the design and implementation of a normative system for
resource allocation and of a performance-based budgetary allocation
system; the introduction of appropriate management and information
systems, in particular with regard to student admissions and
records, facility utilization and course timetables; the creation of
an evaluation and the implementation of an accreditation system for
the higher education system; and the training of higher education
administrative and management staff.
A.    The creation of the Higher Institutes of Technology
ISETs) (USS75.2 million total base cost)
2.04        The proposed project would support the creation of five ISETs in the
main economic and industrial regions of the country. To this end, three ISETs
would be built respectively in Tunis, Sousse and Sfax, and two existing
facilities in Nabeul and Gabbs would be converted into ISETs. Each ISET would
have the following characteristics (see Annex II):
(i)   the objective of training technicians in an intensive program of
2,000 hours duration (five semesters) including a period of work
experience and an end-of-studies project;
(ii)  a total enrollment  limited to 1500 to 1800 students  in five
departments covering industry and services, organized so as to
encourage links between the disciplines in line with the needs of
local industries;
(iii) a customized legal status providing them with specific governance
characteristics which differ from that of universities and which
will enable them to manage the resources they generate; to have
professionals as members of their Board of Directors; to implement
cost-recovery measures; to recruit contracted teaching staff; to



- 16 -
offer in-service training services to industry on a contractual
basis; to enter into contractual arrangements so as to promote
technology transfers and the local development of diversified
enterprises; and, in general, to revise programs and pedagogy in
line with the needs of the economic environment.
(iv) the status, recruitment, career and conditions of service of the
teaching staff would be designed to: encourage recruitment of
specialists; increase links with industry through technology
transfers and in-service training programs; provide incentives for
teacher   involvement   in  student  progress,   achievement  and
professional orientation; reduce training costs by increasing the
teaching load to 384 hours per year (more than twice the teaching
load of a university professor); and, to that end, provide
attractive career prospects and remuneration;
(v)   students would be selected from baccalaureat holders on the basis of
past educational performance and interviews; a few places would be
offered to students who had completed secondary education and had
some professional experience;
(vi) the occupational relevance of courses would be emphasized; teaching
would be based on work in groups (25 to 30 students), intensive
practical work, internships, and projects in their applied
disciplines or subjects, and would involve the participation of
practicing professionals in the disciplines studied.
(vii) each ISET would mix disciplines related both to the service and
industrial sectors in order to: (i) encourage cross fertilization
between disciplines; (ii) satisfy the diversified needs of local
enterprises; (iii) attract equally men and women in technical
studies.
2.05        The Government has sent to the Bank the draft laws as approved by the
'.inisterial Council, establishing the legal framework of the ISETs and creating
the ISETs of Tunis, Sousse and Sfax, as well as the draft decrees defining
(i) the mandate, structure and management of the ISETs; (ii) the conditions of
service of their teaching staff; (iii) their career and salary scale; (iv) their
fringe benefits; (v) guidelines for organization of the competitive exams (for
technology and management teaching in secondary schools); and (vi) conditions of
study, exams and internships in ISETs (para. 5.01). As a condition of
effectiveness, the above-mentioned laws and decrees will be formally promulgated
or issued (publication in the official Gazette) (para. 5.02). In addition, the
law converting the ISTs of Nabeul and Gabes into ISETs shall be published in the
official Gazette by December 31, 1992 (para. 5.03); all these laws and other
decrees and regulations relating to the establishment and operation of the ISETs
shall be maintained in force following the establishment of the ISETs (para.
5.03).
2.06        Program development  (USSO.5 millionl.   Each ISET would have a
combination of the following departments: mechanical engineering, electrical and



- 17 -
electronic engineering, industrial maintenance, mining and civil engineering,
chemistry, biology and bio-technology, management, office administration and
technology, commercialization techniques, and social and paralegal disciplines.
Program content for each of these departments would be specified IntLer.ALJ
according to a survey of local enterprises, economic development prospects and
regional employment characteristics in each ISET locale, vhich vwll be carried
out by December 31, 1993 (para. 5.03). To that end, the project would finance
five months of expert services for each of the main disciplines up to a total of
55 man-months. Equipment specifications shall be derived from this survey.
2.07        Construction and related activities (USS55.7 million). The proposed
project would finance land acquisition, architectural studies, the construction
of the ISETs of Tunis (21,200 m2), Sousse (14,350 m2) and Sfax (17,750 mz), and
the conversion of the IST of Nabeul (16,000 m2 to renovate) and of the IST of
Gabbs (13,500 m2 of which 5,250 m2 to renovate and 7,800 M2 to build) into ISETs.
The planning of construction has been programmed to take into account the need:
(i) to simultaneously open several ISETs, so as to increase their impact; (ii) to
coordinate the opening of departments with the training of teachers; and (iii) to
schedule work accordingly so as to permit the progressive opening of departments.
Participation of local contractors will be encouraged so as to further the links
between the ISETs and their economic environment. On the basis of the needs
identified during program elaboration (see para. 2.06), the project would finance
the required equipment, furniture, books and pedagogical materials for all the
departments (see Annex II). Documents confirming the acquisition by or transfer
to MES of the land for four of the ISETs have been transmitted to the Bank (para.
5.01). The site for the fifth ISET (Nabeul) is already the property of the MES.
Human resources develoRment (USS19 million)
2.08        To implement this program, the Government would progressively create
600 teaching positions and 300 technical and administrative positions to
constitute the tenured workforce. When funcrioning at full capacity, this staff
would deliver 70X of the teaching load, the remaining 30X being covered by fixed-
term contract staff recruited from practicing professionals.   The tenured
teaching staff would be selected from the following groups: (i) students with
master's degrees in relevant disciplines (baccalaur6at plus four years) or
engineering (baccalaureat plus six years) studying in Tunisia or abroad;
(ii) professionals from industry and services; and (iii) staff currently employed
to teach at the ISTs.  All tenured staff would receive appropriate training
depending on their background, experience, and the disciplines they would be
teaching at the ISET. The project would contribute to developing the permanent
training capacities in Tunisia needed to meet the ISETs' needs for teaching staff
over the next 10 years (10 to 12 ISETs) so as to avoid the brain drain of
overseas educated post-graduate students. To that end, a small unit, charged
with the design, coordination and monitoring of this training, and housed in the
Preparatory Institute for Science and Technology (Institut Preparatoire aux
Etudes Scientifiques et Technologiques) would be created. Training programs would
be sub-contracted to existing establishments in relevant disciplines. Technical
assistance and the supply of complementary equipment to these establishments
would be provided under this project, as necessary, to bring the level of these
training programs to international standards (para. 2.09 and Annex III).



- 18 -
2.09        Training of ISET teaching staff:  Each training program (see details
in Annex III) for the ISET teaching staff would comptise: (i) a core training of
up to eight months in basic and specialized subjects; (ii) a three-month program
in pedagogic theory and practice in the relevant subjects to be provided in
similar institutions overseas; (iii) a three-month work internship. Over the
duration of the project, about 500 students would attend the complete training
cycle; about 150 trainee teachers in general subjects (such as communications
skills, languages, and applied mathematics) would not have an internship in
enterprises; those students who had completed six years of post-secondary studies
would not be required to participate in the pedagogic training or in the
internship program.  During the first year of their training, students would
receive scholarships; entry to the second year of training would be contingent
upon successful completion of the first year. During that period, students would
be under contract with MES.  The acceptance of students as part of the ISET
teaching staff would be based on their obtaining an aptitude certificate upon
completion of the training cycle.   The project would finance: 24 man-months of
foreign expert services to assist in the design of the above training programs;
training contracts in Tunisia which have been estimated on the basis of
US$55/hour for a 10-student group; scholarships in Tunisia estimated at
US$165/month; and participation of foreign teachers estimated at US$110,000/year.
Training costs and miscelianeous expenses abroad (subcontracted and pedagogic
training) have been estimated at an average of US$16,500 per student for the
eight-month training cycle and at US$9,000 per student for the threl-month
pedagogic training. Finally, scholarships during the internships in enterprises
and in the school environment have been estimated at US$330/month per student.
The project would also finance expert services and miscellaneous costs for the
preparation and delivery of exams and diplomas (estimated at US$300,000).
Bilateral and twinning arrangements between ISETs and similar foreign
institutions will reinforce this component by providing supplementary internship
possibilities, technical assistance and exchanges of visiting professors.
2.10        Implementation and Evaluation.   This component would include the
provision of specialist services for the following tasks: (i) technical
assistance to the ISETs' department managers during the first year of activity
of each ISET (estimated at 23 man-months); (ii) assistance to courses, programs
and student evaluations (estimated at 46 man-months over the first two years);
(iii) a mid-program evaluation (estimated at four man-months).
B.    The National Program for University ImRrovement (PNRU)
(USS31 million)
2.11        The National University Improvement Program is designed to provide
incentives for quality and efficiency improvements in universities by allocating
criteria-based resources in addition to their standard recurrent and capital
budgets. This program provides funding for the implementation of reforms within
the scope of the 1989 Law. These reforms include upgrading, strengthening and
re-designing the programs to improve their quality and occupational relevance for
the graduates. Individual institutions (faculties, schools and institutes) would
be invited to participate by preparing sub-project proposals which would be
evaluated through a competitive selection process involving open review and
assessment. Some sub-projects may involve several institutions and others may
be integrated with institutional development proposals.



- 19 -
2.12        There are seven categories of sub-projects within this program
corresponding to the main focal points of the Government strategy: the
introduction of new undergraduate study programs at the introductory general
study stage (first cycle); the diversification of the second cycle streams to
increase career options (research, non-academic employment aimed at labor market
needs); also in the second cycle, the improvement of secondary-teacher training
programs; improvement of programs to train engineers; expansion of computer
availability in all disciplines and improvement in library and related services;
and reorganized doctoral studies.
2.13        The sub-project proposals would be evaluated and a selection made
annually using criteria based on the extent to which they will improve:
a)    teaching and learning;
b)    employment prospects;
c)    efficiency in the use of available resources and,
d)    a realistic appraisal of the capacity to implement within the time
frame indicated.
The selection criteria and operational indicators (see Annex IV) are included in
the PNRU procedural manual which was discussed and agreed upon during the
appraisal mission; the final version will be forwarded to the Bank for approval
prior to effectiveness (see para. 5.02). The selection methodology, and more
specifically the weight given to each criteria, will be defined each year by the
CRU according to investment priorities in line with the implementation of reform.
This allocation mechanism is likely to become a permanent feature of the higher
education funding s-J.tem as discussed below.  To ensure the development of best
practice during implementation, the manual may be modified on an exceptional
basis and the char.ges proposed by the CRU discussed and agreed upon with the Bank
prior to their imklementation.
2.14        Operati'l of the National University Improvement Program.   The
Committee for Unive:.-ity Improvement (CRU) would be created to implement the
PNRU.   It would have the following membership: a representative of the MES
Minister, the Directo. of Higher Education of the MES, the Director of the
Foundation for Scientt. lc Research, the university presidents, representatives
from the economic and scial sectors, and academia.  The CRU would meet at least
three times a year to define the PNRU priorities in conjunction with the
implementation of reforms, allocate the PNRU budget for the relevant fiscal year,
select sub-projects from those submitted by universities, and monitor their
subsequent implementation according to the agreed-upon criteria and operational
indicators (see Annex IV).
2.15        An executive secretariat situated within the Unit for Evaluation,
Projects and Programs (UEPP) of the MES, comprising its manager and two senior
full-time project officers, will service the CRU and will be responsible for the
smooth running of the PNRU.   Its main function will be, for the inaugural
meeting, to draft and submit an outline work program for the duration of the
project and a detailed timetable of work for the coming year. To avoid delay in
launching the project it will also prepare and present for the selection process
those sub-projects that have already been submitted. In subsequent meetings it



- 20 -
should present regular progress reports on the implementation of approved sub-
projects and review its work program and timetable. The secretariat will also
be charged with  ,.ie responsibility, as defined in the procedural manual, for
ensuring the distribution of information to universities and their staff on the
eligibility of sub-projects for funding by the PNRU, application forms and
procedures, and timetables for the submission and evaluation of proposals.
2.16        As necessary, the secretariat will provide expert advice to the
universities to assist them in the preparation of sub-project proposals and to
evaluate their technical feasibility. It will check that the proposals received
conform to the selection criteria and operational indicators and follow the
procedural manual. After the CRU has selected the sub-projects to be implemented
in the coming fiscal year, the secretariat will communicate the results to the
universities and ensure that the necessary budgetary allocations are made to the
universities through the PNRU. It will also initiate a program to monitor the
implementation of the selected sub-projects. The project will have the funds
necessary to contract appropriate expertise for sub-project evaluation and the
preparation of equipment specifications for inclusion in tender documents. The
manager of the UEPP will also serve as a liaison with the Project Coordinator by
providing regular progress reports on the activities of the CRU and the
implementation of the sub-projects.
2.17        The Government has transmitted to the Bank the Ministerial Decision
establishing the CRU and appointing its membership. The CRU shall be maintained
during the execution of the Project. Sub-projects above US$500,000 and the first
ten sub-projects selected, whatever their cost, will require prior approval from
the Bank. To facilitate management of sub-projects both by the MES and the Bank,
the list of all sub-projects approved by the CRU and selected by the MES would
be transmitted to the Bank including, for each sub-project, a unique
identification number, a brief description and its total cost (para. 5.03).
This process of sub-project selection and approval will be linked with the annual
investment budget preparation to permit the inclusion of the selected sub-
projects in the budget.
C.    The  strengthening  of  MES  caRacities  and  project
management (USS6.1 million total base cost)
2.18        The MES would develop and introduce a normative allocation system
(SAGES) (US$0,5 million) for human, physical and financial resources (see
Annex V), in order to create incentives for efficiency, which would include the
following:
(i)   Initial phase: Initiated during project preparation, this phase has
consisted of the development of a data bank on the actual
organization and functioning of higher education, including:
(i) data on teachers, student-teacher ratios, administrative,
technical and support staff, and facilities; (ii) a review of
existing program strueture -- pedagogy practiced in terms of number
of hours delivered per year and per discipline--; (iii) student
distribution in the various programs, for each year according to the
course contents.



- 21 -
(ii)  Second phase:  Once the above-mentioned data has been collected,
norms for resource allocation would be defined in order to achieve
optimal use of allocated resources.   Finally, this system would
provide decision makers with the projections and simulations which
would facilitate both the budgeting process and decisions regarding
the creation of new programs. This new budgeting system will be
implemented beginning with the 1995 budget (para. 5.03). To that
end, the project would finance experts' services, computer equipment
and related software, and training for MES, university and faculty
staff.
2.19        Managerial and maintenance capacities (US$0.9 million) would be
developed in the universities, facultiRs, schools and institutes, particularly
in the areas of student admissions, records, facility utilization and course
timetables (See Annex V). The project would finance: in an initial phase, a
study to review existing systems in all establishments; in a second phase, the
design and development of the software programs and data bases; in a third phase,
the implementation of the system, provision of computer equipment in
institutions, the foreign costs of training the MES specialists who would manage
the system, and information seminars for future users.
2.20        A national evaluation committee (US$0.2 million) for the higher
education system has been created and its members appointed, to monitor and
evaluate the efficiency of programs. In addition, an accreditation system for
the new curricula proposed by all institutions would be developed within the MES.
Financing for these programs and curricula will be contingent upon accreditation.
The project would finance six man-months per year of expert services to appraise
programs and participate in evaluation juries as peer reviewers in selected
disciplines and subjects.
2.21        Management Training (US$3.3 million):  To provide universities with
the means to fulfill their new mission as institutional intermediaries, improve
their management (e.g. student admissions, students' educational records, budget)
and optimize the use of existing resources (staff, facilities and equipment), a
university management training program will be developed (see Annex V). About
200 persons (40 per year) will be trained over the period 1992-98. To that end,
the project will finance two man-months of expert services for a study to design
specific training programs and define course content and duration, to be carried
out prior to the implementation of the management training program (para. 5.03).
Training would be both theoretical and practical and would include two two-month
internships (one abroad and one in Tunisia).   Candidates would be recruited
competitively from master's (or equivalent) degree holders. The project will
finance student scholarships and stipends, training and internship costs, and
related computer equipment. In-service training will also be organized for the
existing 160 university managers during the project.  Each participant would
receive four weeks of training.
2.22        Proiect  Management  (US$1.3  million):    To  ensure  the  timely
implementation of the higher education reform and, in particular, the measures
included in this project, MES will strengthen its organizational structure by
creating the following functional units which will be placed under its authority:



- 22 -
- A new Unit for Evaluation, Projects and Programs (UEPP), which will
initiate and coordinate all actions to be implemented under the higher
education reform, and implement the PNRU in line with its procedural manual
and the terms of the loan agreement for this project. It will liaise with
the CRU and the National Evaluation Committee which are placed under the
Minister's responsibility.
- A new Unit for Technological Studies, which will be responsible for
implementation of the ISET program. It will carry out, with appropriate
managerial staff, the development and implementation of all ISETs'
programs, as well as the design and implementation of the training program
for the ISETs' teaching staff.
- A new unit, within the Department of Planning and Statistics, which will be
created to develop and monitor the administrative, financial and university
management rationalization program both at the MES and university levels.
- A new academic planning and development unit which will be charged with the
development of architectural programs reflecting the requirements of the
new selected pedagogic programs.
- Under the authority of the MES Secretary General, a project coordinator who
will coordinate with the relevant MES Departments and units and the World
Bank.   In cooperation with all Departments and Units, he or she will
monitor project disbursements and procurement, serve as a liaison with
other Ministries, and prepare periodic reports reviewing progress on all
components of the project (para 3.19).
2.23        As a condition of effectiveness, the Government shall confirm that:
(i) a Project Coordinator has been appointed; and (ii) the organizational units
in charge of implementing the PNRU and ISET have been established within MES and
their managers appointed (para. 5.02).  In addition, the Project Coordinator
shall be maintained during the execution of the Project; the units in charge of
the implementation of the PNRU and ISET programs, as well as the evaluation body
and the academic and planning development unit, will be formalized by
December 31, 1993 and provided with all the resources required to fulfill their
mandate (para 5.03).
2.24        To  make  these  units  functional,  the  project  would  finance
complementary computer and office equipment, vehicles, and expert services.



- 23 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT COSTS
3.01            Project costs,  including indirect taxes and duties, are estimated at
116.2 million Tunisian Dinars (TD) or US$126.3 million equivalent and include:
(i) for the ISETs, the costs of land acquisition, building construction and
rehabilitation, equipment and educational materials, training services and
scholarships for the teacher training, and expert services; (ii) for the PNRU,
a lump sum to finance equipment, fellowships and expert services for sub-projects
selected according to defined criteria and (iii) computer, office equipment and
vehicles and expert and training services for the strengthening of managerial
capacities at the MES, university and institution levels.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM 1/
4%    % TOTAL
- DOTMILLION-             -USS MILLION -    FOREIGN  BASE
LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  E)CH.   COSTS
,m ....  ....n    amo  a     .. .......    ... m       .  maUUma
HIGHER INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (ISET)
Program Development                          0.2      0.3      0.5     0.2      0.4    0.5   69.7%       5.0%
Con0tuctIon                                 23.3    10.8    34.1    25.3       11.8   37.1   31.8%      33.0%
Equipment & Pedmaterials                     2.6    14.5    17.1       2.8     15.6    18.6   65.0%     10.6%
Human Resources Dvelopment                   6.3     11.2    17.5      6.8     12.2    19.0   64.1%    16.0%
Sub-total           32.3    36.9    69.2    35.1       40.2    75.2   53.4%    67.0%
NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR
UNIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT (PNRU)                5.8    22.7    28.5       0.3     24.7   31.0   79.7%     27.0%
MANAGEMENT & PLANNING CAPACMES
Resources allocaion system                   0.2      0.2     0.4      0.2      0.2    0.5   51.1%      4.0%
Management and Maintenance sstem             0.2      0.6     0.8      02       0.7    0.9   70.6%      8.0%
Evaluation                                   0.1      0.2     0.3     0.1       0.1     02    72.7%     2.0%
Management TraIning                          2.2      0.8     3.0      2.4      0.9    3.3   26.2%      2.9%
Projt management                             0.8      0.4     1.2      0.S      0.5     1.3   35.4%     1.2%
Sub-toal             3.4      2.2     5.       37       2.4    6.1   38.0%      5.6%
mamma   Mumma  Mumm. a .Mmm       Mumma  mam.*
Totl Sas Costs                               41.5     61.8   103.3    451       S7     1123   59.9%    100.0%
Phyica Contingencies                         1.2      1.4     2.6      1.3      1.5    2.8   63.7%      2.5%
PrIc Contngencies                            4.5      5.7    10.2     4.0       6.2    11.1   5.3%      9.o%
TOTALPROJECTCOSTS                            472      69.0   116.2    51.3      76.0   126.3   59.4%   112.4%
j/ Includlng USS9.6 million In taxes and dutles.
ND. Sub-totats may not add up due to rounding.



- 24 -
3.02         A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given below.
The amounts and categories of expenditures for the PNRU has been estimated on the
basis of expenditures for a sample of typical sub-projects presented by the
universities; the costs of rehabilitation, equipment, educational materials,
fellowships and expert services for this sample has been proportionately applied
to the total amount of the PNRU.
TabLe 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE Il
%   % TOTAL
> -     OT MILLION            USS MILLION -  FOREIGN   BASE
LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL  EXUH.  COSTS
HIGHER INSTffUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (ISE)
Land Acquisition                       4.6    0.0    4.6    6.0    0.0   5.0   0.0%    4.5J
Civil Works                           19.0   11.0   30.0   20.6   12.0  32.6   3.8W   29.0%
Equipment & Pedagogica Mat             2.8   15.8   18.6    3.0   17.2  20.2  85.0W   18.0%
Expert services                        1.3    1.0    2.3    1.4    1.1   2.5  44.0W    2.2%
Training servces                       2.5    9.1   11.6    2.7    9.9   12.6  78.4W   11.2W
Scholuaship & Fellowships              2.2    0.0    2.2    2.3    0.0   2.3   0.0%    1.8W
Sub-total    32.3   30.9   69.2   35.1   40.2  75.2  53.4%   66L9%
NATIONAL PROGRAM
FOR UNIVEISITY IMPROVEMENT(PNRU)       5.8   22.7   28.5    62    24.7  31.0  70.6W   27.6W
MANAGEMENT & PLANNING CAPACMES
EquIpment                              0.1    1.0    1.1    0.1    1.1   1.2  90.0%    1.1W
Exprt services                         0.4    0.5    0.9    0.5    0.5   1.0  492W    00W
TraInIng services                      0.1    0.3    0.4    0.1    0.3   0.4  83.8W    0.3%
Soholarships & Fellowships             2.8    0.4    3.2    3.1    0.4   3.5  11.7%    .1W
subtowl       3.4    2.2    5.6    3.7    2.4   6.1  30.3W    5.4W
Total Base Cost                        41.5   61.8  103.3   45.1   67.3  112.3  59.9W  100.0%
Physical Contngoenlees                 1.2    1.4    2.0    1.3    1.5   2.8  53.7%    2.5W
Price Condlngencles                    4.5    6.7   10.2    4.0    0.2  11.1   5.3W    119W
TOTAL PROJECTCOSTS                    d42    6O.  116.2   61.3    7.   126.3  604%   112.446
I/ Including US$ 9.6 million In taxes and dutlf
Toal may not add up due to rounding.
3.03         Aasis of Cost Estimates.  Costs of construction and rehabilitation
of facilities are based on joint Bank/NES preliminary estimates. The costs of
these works average US$435 per m2 (400DT per m2) for new construction and the
extension  of  current  facilities,  and  US$109  per  m2  (1OODT  per  m2)  for
rehabilitation of the existing structures. Furniture and equipment costs have
been estimated on the basis of recent contracts in similar schools in Tunisia and
Europe. Needs and costs of computer equipment and installation for each of the
facilities are based on their student capacity and the characteristics
(infrastructure,  administrative  staff,  activity)  of each  facility.    Office



- 25 -
equipment costs have been calculated on the basis of quotations and mission
estimates.  Technical assistance costs - US$15,000 per man-month of foreign
specialist services and US$5,000 per man-month of local specialist services -
have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable technical
assistance.   The man-month costs of foreign specialists  include housing,
relocation costs, subsistence, office services, fees, overhead and recruitment
costs.   The cost of recruiting foreign teaching staff has been estimated at
US$110,000 per year. The cost of training academics and senior technicians in
institutions similar to the ISETs has been estimated at US$5000 per month
including travel, stipends, fees, housing, and miscellaneous expenses. Base-cost
estimates reflect prices as projected for the time of effectiveness (July 1992).
3.04        Customs Duties and Taxes.  Equipment and works acquired by MES are
exempt  of direct  taxes and duties.    Project costs  include an estimated
US$9.6 million in indirect taxes and duties.
3.05        Contingency Allowances.    Project  costs  include  a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$2.8 million), equal to 2.3X of
the  estimated  base  cost  of  the  project.    Price  contingencies  between
effectiveness (July 1992) and the end of project implementation are estimated at
US$11.1 million equivalent, or 9% of base cost plus physical contingencies.  No
contingencies have been applied to the PNRU component since it is a lump sum
amount. Total contingencies represent 11.5% of the base cost. Price increases
have been applied to both local and foreign costs and for all categories at a
3.4% annual rate. It is expected that differentials between foreign and local
inflation during project implementation would be reflected in an adjustment to
the exchange rate.
3.06        Foreign Exchange ComDonent.  The foreign exchange component has been
determined by:  (a) estimating at 40% the indirect foreign exchange costs of
construction and rehabilitation and assuming that architects would be recruited
locally; (b) assuming that all equipment would be imported and all furniture
procured locally; (c) determining the foreign and local specialists who will need
to be recruited; and (d) assessing local training capacities and the requirements
for training services abroai, fellowships,  scholarships and stipends.   The
foreign exchange component of the PNRU was extrapolated from a sample of sub-
projects  submitted by  the universities.    The  resulting  foreign exchange
percentages are summarized in Table 3.2 above. Total foreign exchange costs,
including contingencies, have been estimated at US$75 million, or about 59.5% of
total project costs.
Recurrent Costs
3.07        The average annual recurrent cost per ISET student (TD 4,000) will
be twice that of university students, as a result of the improved student-staff
ratio, the increased number of contact hours of training (1,000 hours per year
compared to 375), and the practical work content of technological disciplines.
However, due to the design of the ISET program in five semesters of study and the
low anticipated repetition and drop-out rates, the expected recurrent unit cost
per ISET graduate (TD 10,000) will be half the average unit cost of a university
graduate; this will globally increase the cost-efficiency of the higher education
system. At project completion (1998), ISET students will represent 7% of total



- 26 -
higher education enrollment and between 20Z to 30X of all graduates. All other
things remaining equal, the creation of the ISETs will contribute to reducing the
average overall recurrent cost of higher education graduates by about 12X while
increasing the number of graduates of the higher education system by 252.
3.08        In universities, incremental recurrent costs would result primarily
from higher maintenance costs for equipments and libraries.   However,  the
increased quality of teaching will reduce drop-out and repetition rates, and
therefore the cost per graduate, which will largely offset the increase in
maintenance costs.
PROJECT FINANCING
3.09        The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million would finance 1002 of the
foreign exchange component of the project, equivalent to 64.52 of total project
costs net of taxes. The Government would finance the balance of project costs of
US$51.3 million. Project financing would be as shown in Table 3.3. In order
to facilitate the timely development of project activities, retroactive financing
of up to US$4 million would be included. This will enable the recruitment of
experts to develop teacher training programs for the ISETs' related curricula and
equipment lists, the appointment of architects and other experts for the
topographical and geotechnical studies to be carried out prior to construction,
and the provision of office equipment necessary for the implementation of the
PNRU. Retroactive financing would be limited to project expenditures incurred
after the appraisal mission.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
----- US$  Million -----
Category of Expenditure                      IBRD  GOVERNMENT  Total
HIGHER INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (ISET)
Land Acquisition                                        5.0      5.0
Civil Works & Arch. Services                13.2       19.4     32.6
Equipment/Ped. Materials                    17.2        3.0     20.2
Expert Services                              1.0        1.5      2.5
Train. Serv., Scholarships & Fellowships  10.0          4.9     14.9
Unallocated                                  7.4        5.6     13.0
PROGRAM FOR UNIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT (PNRU)   23.4          7.6     31.0
MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING CAPACITIES
Equipment/Ped. Materials                     1.1        0.1      1.2
Expert Services                              0.5        0.5      1.0
Training Services                            0.3        0.1      0.4
Scholarships/Fellowships                     0.4        3.1      3.5
Unallocated                                  0.5        0.4      0.9
Total                                   75.0      51.3    126.3
Totals mnay not add up due to roundin8



- 27 -
OCUREMENT
3.10             Procurement arrangements for the components to be financed under the
project are summarized in Table 3.4 below. Procurement would be carried out by
the Administrative and Financial Department (DAF) of the MES with the support,
whenever required, of the Centre National Pedagogique for the purchase of foreign
equipment and of the Ministry of Equipment for civil works.
TABLE 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(including contingencics, taxes & duties)
(USS million equivalent)
PRUDENT
Ica      LIB      LCB  SHOPPING  OTHER   N.A.   TOTA
HIGHER INSTTUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (ISETI
Land Acquisition                                                                             5.6      6.6
<:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.-    :0*:            f
Civil works (ncluding arch. voes)                               34.1        4.0                      38.1
Equipment. Books & pod. mat.                 20.6                           3.5      0.5             24.6
'17   ;       .  .       ,       2;.:   0.,              20
Expert & Training services                                                          19.3             19.3
s  -: ;-    '-       -:  t12.S5
Scholarships                                                                         1.6              1.0
0.9   ~~~~..04
Sb-Wl       20.        0.0     34.1        75      26.1     5*.    69.1
ofwhichBank:    17*        09      18.6         4*     12* .09   '4..
OGROAM FOR UNIVERSIT IMMPROVMENT (PNRU) bJ
Civil Works                                                      2.5        0.8                       3.9
Equipment, books & ped. mat.                 14.6       7.0                 2.5      0.6             24.6
i ...: :e'".:':-    :B. :::.-^.: . :.. .::  '... ...;:.  .....:fU '  . :.  ' '''S :.''.:'E:'-:B.::S'':.'
Expert wervcess                                                                      1.               1.6
9' ~ ~  ~      ~     ~    ~     0             '''4' '''*'B f''' R."' 
Fellowships                                                                          t.8              t.0
Sub-toa     14.0       7.0      2.5        3.3      3.6             81.0
clbOdOfardr.      ?       6     ~ O6. ~
MANAGEWENT& PLANNING CAPACMES
Equipment & Pedagogical materals              1.0                           0.4                       1.4
Expert and Trainingsrvic                                                             t .5             1.5
,ER5 i.;............;  YBRf. ,RBR.Y ...  .......     .....     ........-.BY
Scholdrhipe/F loouwiip.                                                              3.2              32
R ,f R g'" E   V , E;"'B' gf~~... E.R'.:. R .;iY.
Sub-tl       1.0       0.0      00.        0.4      4.7             01
of whl  sncb... . 
TOTALPROJECT:                             302        7.0     36.6       112      852      Si    126.3
of which Be*8.                                       6        860.       01                0     7
a/ Shaded figures are tho repective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
bl Procurement a.-rangemente or the PNRU are only Indicatve and
hav been derived from a sample of sub-protecs received fom universides.



- 28 -
3.11.       International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(May 1985), would be used for the procurement of 60X of the total value of books,
equipment, spare parts and vehicles:   (i) For the ISETs, equipment will be
grouped, whenever possible, into packages of goods, the contents of which could
typically be supplied by one supplier; it is estimated that these will represent
30 packages of about US$100,000 each; to the extent possible, slicing and packing
technique would be adopted to attract both large and small companies; (ii) For
the PNRU, goods will be grouped into packages whenever it is compatible with the
timely implementation of the sub-projects; on the basis of the sample of sub-
projects examined during the appraisal mission, it has been estimated that about
half of all equipment would be grouped into ICB packages of about US$100,000
each.   In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15X, or the
existing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. Other items, i.e. the remaining 40X
of equipment, books, vehicles and spare parts, would be suitable for other
procurement methods as described below:
(i)   Limited International Competitive Bidding (LIB) procedures may be
used for the procurement of PNRU equipment for which only a few
suppliers exist; this procedure shall apply to contracts estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of US$500,000 per contract up to
the aggregate amount US$7 million in total.
(ii)  Local  competitive bidding  (LCB):   Because  of  their  scattered
location and the phased scheduling of construction (see para. 2.07),
civil works contracts for the ISETs (construction, rehabilitation
and conversion of the existing facilities) estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up to the aggregate
of US$34.1 million, are unlikely to attract foreign contractors;
LCB procedures, which are generally consistent with the need for
economy and efficiency in the execution of the works, will therefore
apply. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that (i)
opening of bids shall take place in public, in the presence of the
bidders wishing to attend; (ii) bid evaluation criteria will be
stated in the bidding documents; and (iii) no preference will be
granted on the basis of national origin of the bidder, of the legal
nature of the bidder, or of financial facilities offered by a bidder
such as export credit or suppliers credit.
(iii) Shopping, based on price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers may be used for:
-     Small civil works contracts, especially for the ISETs, in an
amount less than US$50,000 per contract, and up to a total
aggregate amount of US$4 million;
-     Sundry   items,   such  as   library  books,   complementary
pedagogical, office and computer equipment for the ISET
teacher training program and the institutional development
component, and equipment for the PNRU when grouping into



- 29 -
packages is impracticable due to the concept of free standing
sub-projects; each of these contracts should not exceed
US$100,000 and their total aggregated amount US$6.4 million
equivalent;
(iv)  Direct contracting:  Pedagogical materials and customized computer
software for which there is only one supplier identified, as well as
spare parts which are only available from the original manufacturers
may be acquired through. direct contracting; these contracts are
estimated at a maximum aggregated amount of US$1.0 million;
(v)   Fellowships and stipends (estimated to cost about US$6.5 million)
for the training programs would be paid directly to the beneficiary.
3.12        Bank Prior Review  for Civil works.  EguiRment  and Pedagogical
Materials:   To facilitate procurement, standard bidding documents for civil
works, equipment and pedagogic materials, to be used for all LIB, ICB, LCB
procurement under the project, will be elaborated by MES and approved by the Bank
before  the first bid  is launched.   In addition,  for all contracts over
US$350,000, the following documentation shall be transmitted to the Bank for
prior review, according to the Bank Guidelines on Procurement (May 1985):
(i)   before bids are invited, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications, other bidding and draft contract documents, and a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding;
(ii)  after bids have been received and evaluated, and before a final
decisioia on the award is made, the minutes of the evaluation,
comparison and selection committees, including the name of the
bidder to which the award is proposed; and
(iii) two conformed copies of the contract promptly after its execution
and prior to the corresponding withdrawal application.
It is estimated that this review would cover about 70% of the total value of
equipment contracts of US$50.6 million equivalent. The remaining 30% would be
subject to selective post award reviews. For the PNRU, all bidding documents and
contracts will include a reference to the sub-project to which they apply.
3.13        Technical Assistance.  Specialist services, including architectural
services, would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
For all contracts over US$50,000, draft terms of reference, estimated costs, a
short list of consultants and firms, selection procedures, letter of invitation,
and contracts will be reviewed with the Bank prior to inviting proposals; the
minutes of the evaluation committee, the winning proposal and the negotiated
contract will also be reviewed by the Bank prior to contract signature.
Contracts under US$50,000 will be subject to selective post-award reviews.



30 -
DISBURSEMENTS
3.14        The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about seven
years, which is comparable to the average disbursement profile for all sectors
in Tunisia (eight years). Project completion would be June 30, 1998, and the
loan accounts Closing Date would be December 31, 1998. Loan disbursements would
be made against:
TOTAL AMOUNT                   PERCENTAGE DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
Higher Institute of Technology (ISET)
15.5        40X  of  the  total  expenditures  on  civil  works,   including
architectural  fees  for  the  construction  and  conversion  of
facilities;
21.0        100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
including vehicles, furniture and educational materials and 100X of
the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured equipment and
furniture; and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
12.5        100X of the foreign expenditures and 85Z of local expenditures for
consultant services, training services and fellowships.
National Program for University Improvement (PNRU)
23.4        100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, bvoks and educational materials and 1001 of the
ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured equipment and
furniture; and 851 of local expenditures of other items procured
locally; 1001 of the foreign expenditures and 851 of local
expenditures for consultant services, training services and
fellowships.
Management and Planning Capacities
1.3        1001 of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
including vehicles, furniture, books and educational materials and
100X of the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured
equipment and furniture; and 85% of local expenditures of other
items procured locally;
1.3        1001 of the foreign expenditures and 85% of the local expenditures
for consultant services, training services, scholarships and
fellowships.
3.15        Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, with the exception
of those in respect of expenditures under contracts valued below US$200,000
equivalent, and for stipends, allowances and fellowships for the ISET teacher



, 31 -
training and management training, in which case applicatiors would be on the
basis of certified Statements of Expenditure.  Documentation in these cases
(including lists of recipients and amounts paid for scholarships and stipends)
would be retained by the Borrower for at least one year after receipt by the Bank
of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.  This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by Bank
staff upon request.
3.16        Disbursement requests for all items financed under the PNRU will
include, in addition to standard information, the identification number of the
sub-project to which they apply as well as the estimated total amount of this
sub-project (para. 2.17), and, for all sub-projects above the US$500,000
thres&told for prior review by the Bank, the date of the telex of Bank approval.
Loan disbursements under the PNRU will be limited to a total amount of
US$23.4 million equivalent.
3.17        Snecial Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars with the Central Bank
of Tunisia to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit, equivalent to
about US$3 million, representing approximately four months of projected Bank
expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished monthly (or at the latest
every three months).  Documentation for replenishment of the Special Account
would follow the same procedure as in paragraph 3.15. In addition, monthly bank
statements reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
Until the Special Account is funded, the minimum size withdrawal applications
acceptable by the Bank would be US$75,000 equivalent, after which applications
submitted outside of the Special Account would be for amounts equivalent to at
least 10 of the amount advanced to the Account.
3.18        Accounts and Audits.   Separate accounts for the project would be
ma--intained. Each year a detailed statement reflecting project expenditures
during that period, and projected expenditures for the forthcoming year, would
be prepared.   Within 45 days after the end of each year, copies of these
statements would be submitted to the Bank to facilitate supervision.  Project
accounts including the Special Account (para.3.17) would be audited in accordance
with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank".  Within six months of the end of each
fiscal year, the Bank would be provided with an audit report of such scope and
detail as it may reasonably request.  Such a report would include a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of
expenditures, and after each fiscal year. The Government provided assurances to
this effect during negotiations (para. 5.03).
IMPLEMENTAT ION AND MANAGEMENT
3.19        A  project  coordinator  will  be  appointed  to  coordinate  the
implementation of all activities under the project with all departments and units
involved (para. 2.22), monitor progress of each component, prepare yearly
implementation plans, monitor procurement and disbursements, and serve as a
liaison with the Bank. At least once a year, he or she will prepare a progress



- 32 -
report to review progress towards the project implementation targets and
objectives based on the agreed-upon monitoring indicators (para 3.22), and
implementation schedule.  This report will also include a description of the
detailed activities for the coming year, which will be reviewed and agreed during
annual meetings c mposed of the General Secretary and of a representative of the
MES departments and units involved in the implementation of project activities.
3,20        The PNRU and ISET components will be implemented and managed by the
two new units established within MES (para. 2.22 & 2.23). The manager of the
PNRU unit will be assisted by two senior project officers. The manager of the
ISET unit will be assisted by at least five specialists for the main ISET
disciplines. The institutional component will be implemented by the Department
of Planning and Statistics, reinforced by a small unit created to elaborate on
and implement the administrative, financial and university management
rationalization program (SAGES).   The DAF will ensure the administrative,
procurement and disbursement aspects of the project, as part of its normal
activities.  The new units created within the MES organizational structure will
be formalized into Departments as part of the strengthened MES organizational
structure by December 31, 1993 (para. 2.22 & 2.23).
SUPERVISION. MONITORING AD) EVALUATION
3.21        Supervision.  The project would be supervised and monitored by the
Bank through the normal supervision mechanism. About 30 staff-weeks will be
required during the first two years of implementation and 50 staff-weeks over tne
following five years. Supervision would rely on annual progress reports (para.
3.19) prepared by the Coordinator and on Bank missions to elaborate remedial
measures, when needed. A project completion report would be submitted to the
Bank within four months of the loan closing date (para. 3.14). At negotiations,
the Government provided assurances to that effect (para. 5.03).
3.22        Monitoring and Evaluation.   The monitoring and evaluation of the
project would be based on two sets of indicators, to be included in the periodic
progress reports:
(i)   project implementation indicators that would help monitor the smooth
and timely implementation of the project activities, and would be
based on bi-annual updates of a detailed implementation schedule;
and
(ii)  performance  indicators  monitoring  attainment  of  the  project
objectives and serving as a basis for the design of corrective
measures when needed:
For the ISETs comRonent:
- Number of graduates compared with the number of students
enrolled for that cohort
- Graduates employed in the labor market, and use of their training
within one year of qualifying, type of employment
- Cost per graduate produced according to discipline
- Number of teachers trained and employed in the ISETs
- Effective number of contact hours



- 33 -
- Share of ISET resources in total recurrent budget
For the ppRU comRonent, the sub-projects should include achievement
targets within the project timeframe relating to the relevant
indicators (para. 2.13) for each individual sub-project. Examples
of such targets could include: the introduction of new options
relating to potential employment; improvement in the quality and
quantity of central facilities (libraries, etc); the level of
student usage of equipment included in the project; improvement in
the student pass rate for each year of study; and greater efficiency
in the use of specialist resources. Performance will be monitored
against these targets.
For the Planning and Managerial Capacity component:
- Annual progress towards introducing a norm-based budget and
meeting the norms set up for budgetary and physical resources
allocated to the institutions
- Number of managerial staff trained
- Number of programs evaluated
- Reduction of disparities within institutions
- Number of institutions implementing computerized system
for student records.



- 34 -
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS
ENVIRONMENTAL INPACT
4.01        This proposed project was reviewed under the Bank's Environmental
Assessment procedures and was determined to be in screening Category C, which
includes projects which are not expected to result in significant negative
environmental impact.
BENEFITS
4.02        The project is expected to increase the cost-effectiveness of higher
education and make it more relevant to the country's identified needs and
resources. An improved response by the higher education system to the demands of
the economy, i.e. producing graduates with the appropriate skills, would lead to
increased productivity and growth. More specifically, the project would provide
competitive and export-oriented industries with high-level technicians.
Moreover, a better trained labor force will attract foreign investment. Higher
education is a major vehicle for promoting evolutionary changes in attitudes and
behaviors in a society. The ISETs could have several advantages over traditional
universities in improving access to more vocationally-oriented studies and
creating more employment opportunities for women: they will recruit locally,
their programs will be short-term, and the wide range of disciplines might
attract more women to technical fields. As a consequence it is expected that the
percentage of women enrolled in technical subjects will increase.
RISKS
4.03        The success of the reform being implemented by the Government will
depend upon: (i) the ISETs' ability to fulfill their mandate as originally laid
out in their statutes; (ii) the willingness of the university community to
implement the reform program. These risks have been reduced by: (i) Government
consultations with the academic community, launched in 1990, to ensure
participation of all concerned parties in the elaboration of the objectives of
reform and the measures to be implemented; (ii) development of an implementation
strategy based on a continuous dialogue with the various university councils
established as part of the 1989 Law.  In addition, within the project, these
risks have been addressed by: (i) creating ISETs distinct from the university
system, providing their staff with appropriate training, and employing them under
new conditions of service; (ii) using the University Improvement component and
the new budgeting procedures as incentives for the institutions to participate
in the reform process.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01        The draft laws establishing the legal framework of the ISETs, and
creating the ISETs of Tunis, Sousse and Sfax, as well as the draft decrees
defining, intgr alia. the conditions of service of the ISET teaching staff have
been approved by the Ministerial Committee and transmitted to the Bank (para
2.05). The Government has also provided evidence that the land for the ISETs has
been acquired by or transferred to MES (para. 2.07).
5.02        Effectiveness conditions are the following:
(i)   Publication in the official Gazette,  in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, of the law establishing the legal
framework of the ISETs, the law creating the ISETs of Tunis, Sousse
and Sfax, and the decrees necessary for the implementation of those
laws (para. 2.05);
(ii)  Transmission to the Bank in a form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank of the PNRU procedural manual (para 2.13);
(iii) Establishment within MES and under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, of the organizational units responsible for the implementation
of the PNRU and ISET programs (para. 2.23);
(iv)  Appointment within MES of each of the managers of the UEPP, of the
Unit for Technological Studies, and of a project coordinator (para.
2.23).
5.03        In addition, the following was agreed upon during negotiations:
(i)   The law creating the ISETs of Nabeul and Gabes will be published in
the official Gazette by December 31, 1992 (para. 2.05);
(ii)  The law establishing the legal framework of the ISETs, the law
creating the ISETs, the decrees and other regulations relating to
the establishment and operation of the ISETs shall be maintained in
force following the establishment of the ISETs.
(iii) Program content for each of the ISETs' departments would be
specified according to, inter alia, a survey of local enterprises,
economic   development   prospects   and   regional   employment
characteristics in each of the ISET locales, which will be carried
out by December 31, 1993 (para. 2.06);
(iv)  The Project Coordinator would be maintained for the duration of the
project (para. 2.23), as would the CRU (para. 2.17) which would be
responsible for selecting sub-projects for financing by the PNRU, in
accordance with the selection criteria and process defined in the
procedural manual (para. 2.13); proposals estimated in an amount
equal to or in excess of US$500,000, and the first ten sub-projects
regardless of their cost, will require prior review by the Bank; a



- 36 -
list of all sub-projects selected by the CRU and approved by the MES
would be transmitted to the Bank, including, for each sub-project,
a unique identification number, a brief description and the total
cost (para. 2.17). Total loan disbursements on the PNRU will be
limited to US$23.4 million equivalent (para. 3.16);
(v)   TLe new budgeting system will be implemented for the preparation
and allocation beginning with the 1995 budget (para. 2.18);
(vi)   The study to define training programs and course contents for the
management training of university administrative staff will be
completed prior to implementation of the training program (para.
2.21);
(vii)  The units  in charge of the  implementation of PNRU and ISET
programs, as well as the evaluation, academic and planning
development unit (UEPP), would be formalized by December 31, 1993
and provided the needed resources to fulfill their mandate
(para. 2.23);
(viii) Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
by   auditors acceptable  to the Bank and in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles; within six months of the end of
the Government's fiscal year, the Bank will be provided with
(i) certified copies of the project accounts; (ii) an audit report
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements
against certified statements of expenses (para 3.18); and
(ix)   Annual  progress  reports,  including  a  revised  implementation
schedule, will be prepared by the Project Coordinator and reviewed
and agreed upon with the MES Departments and units involved in the
project (para. 3.18); this report will be made available to the
Bank for joint review. In addition, a completion report will be
submitted to the Bank within four months of the Loan Closing date
(para. 3.20).
5.04         Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$75 million to the Republic of Tunisia.



- 37 -
ANNEXES
Table of Contents
ANNEX I:    STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1.    Higher education and student numbers by gender and academic
staff, by discipline and institution.
Table 2.    Student numbers by discipline and university 1990/91.
Table 3.    Distribution of graduates by level and university 1990/91.
Chart 1.    Higher education recurrent budget allocation.
Table 4.    Recurrent and investment expenditures
Table 5.    Number of third cycle theses and state doctorates (1988/89).
Table 6.    Student repetition rate in a selection of higher education
institutions (1989/90).
Table 7.    Student/academic staff ratio by discipline - NES - 1986/91.
Table 8.    Student staff ratio by grade - 1990.
Chart 2.    Student flow in the university program structure showing
internal efficiency
ANNEX II:   THE HIGHER INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY (ISETS)
I.       Legal status
Table 1: ISETs' main characteristics
II.       Management of the ISETs
III.       Disciplines and options
IV.       Teaching staff
V.       Selection of students
VI.       Diplomas and anticipated professional outlets
VII        Pedagogy
VIII.       Standard course layout
Table 2: Teaching load in hours by type of department
Table 3: Standard course layout
ISETs students flow chart
IX.       Spatial organization and estimate of areas
X.       Equipment
Table 4: Summary table of the surface areas and the
realisation costs of the ISETs - Civil Works
ANNEX III:  TRAINING OF THE ISETS' TEACHING STAFF
I.        Institute of technology teachers - estimated numbers needed
II.        Tkaining program for institute of technology teachers
II.1. General and technological training
A. Training fully contracted to local institutions
B. Training partially contracted to local institutions
C. Training subcontracted abroad
D. Scholarships for students in Tunisia
E. Summary of general and technological training costs
over 5 years
II.2. Pedagogic training abroad
II.3. Internships in enterprises
II.4. Induction to teaching duties
II.5. Total 5-year training budget for ISETs' teaching staff



- 38 -
ANNEX IV:   NATIONAL UNIVERSITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Criterion I - Consistency with Objectives
A.  Improvement in the quality of education and training
B.  Improvement in Matching Training to Labor Market
Requirements
C.  Better Use of Available Resources
Criterion II - Capacity to carry out the sub-project
ANNEX V:    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
A.  Presentation of the SAGES system
I.   Establishment of the Higher Education Data Bank
(Banque de Donn6es de l'Enseignement Sup6r.- BADES)
II. Budget Management System
III. Cost accounting
B.  Management of progress end monitoring of students
C.  Training program for higher education managers
1.   Basic training
II. Refresher training
ANNEX VI:   ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ANNEX VII: BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN FILES



ANNEX I-39                                                                           ANNEXI
Paw  I of 10                                                                         Pa   1 of 10
TABLE 1:   HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENT NIMBERS BY GENDER
AND ACADENIC STAFF, BY DISCIPLINE AND INSTITUTION
Stuients Enro ted       I           Nuer of Teachers
Institutes/Facultti             Fmtle    Male    TOTAL    Prof.&        Asa.&      Autres     TOTAL
_  Mit.Conf. Nai.Ass.  Cata.
I. MES
FUNDAMENTAL SCIENCES
Faculty of Sciencs - Tunfa          1,672     3710    5,382          98        217         30      345
Faculty of Scinces -Bizerte           205      257      462
Faculty of Sciences - lizerte         96       153      249          21         53         9        83
Faculty of Scielnes - Mstir           465     1260    1,725           0          0          0        0
Faculty of Scienes  Sfax              523      946    1,469          26         74         10      110
USU-TOTAL                     2,961    6,326    9,287          20         52          1       73
ARTS. NUUMNITIES. AND
ISLAMIC STUDIES
Faculty of Humanities - Tunis       2,621     3028    5,649          36         97         34      167
Feculty of Hunnitfes - Manouba      2,755     3161    5,916          32        160         70      262
Modern Lanuages - I.B.                642      367    1,009           4         52        103      159
Instftute of Theology                311       479      790          12         18         8        38
Institute of Religious Scienees      316       411      727           5         20          2       27
Institute of llsmic Civilizatior     275       455      730           7          9          1       17
Faculty of Humanities - Sousa         281      230      511           1         59         10       70
Faculty of Huanities   K Irouan    1,013     1115    2,128           1         66         22       89
Faculty of Humunitfes - Sousse       570       444    1,014           0          7         12       19
I.P.S.I.                             282       136      418           4         27         11       42
Institute of Information             336       127      463           1         12          2       15
Faculty of Humanities - Sfax          711      709    1,420           2         33         17       52
SUB-TOTAL                    10,113   10,662   20,775         105        560        292      957
MEDICAL SCIENCES
Faculty of Medicine - Tunis          m        1016    1,788         180        273         11      464
Faculty of Medicine - Monastir        326      161      787          14         32          0       46
Faculty of Pharmacy - Monestir        528      302      830          10         25          3       38
Faculty of Dentistry                 347       278      625           S          6          2       13
Faculty of Medicine - Sousse         467       533      980          29         40          2       71
Faculty of Medicine - Sfax            302      550      852          30         48          2       80
SlB-TOTAL                     2,722    3,140    5.862         268        424         20      712
LAW. ECONOMICS & ADMINISTRATION
Faculty of Economics - Tunis        1,210     2204    3,414          19         72         24      115
Faculty of Law - Tunis              1,558     2452    4,010          15         60         10       85
I.S.G.                               916      1143    2,059           7         63        31       101
Inst. Advanced Coanrecal Studif      482       899    1,381           5         50         18       73
Faculty of Law & Pot. Se. - Tunl     405       701    1,106          15         12          7       34
Faculty of Management - Hot.Tuni       96      331      427           1         11          6       la
Higher Institute of Accounting        331      142      473           0         11          4       15
Faculty of Law - Sousse               731     1415    2,146           6         47          1       54
Faculty of Economics & Adfinistra     944     1660    2,604           8         98         17      123
Faculty of Lw  Sfax                  499       759    1,258           3         25          0       28
SUB-TOTAL                     7,172   11,706   18,878          79        449        118      646
TECHNICAL SCIENCES
National Engineering School * Tu      113      963    1,076          40         87         45      172
Nat. School of Sc. & Techn.            94     1044    1,138          21         90         23      134
Nat. School of Sc. and Eng.            26      118       114          3         15          6       24
I.T.A.A.U.T.                         392       458      850           1         76         29      106
I.P.E.I. - Nabeul                     47       402      449           6         32         15       53
I.S.T. - Nabeul                        77      576      653           6         37          2       45
E.N.I.M.                              110      525      635          10         47         16       73
I.S. Textiles Ksar Helal                7       68       75           2         11          1       14
E.N.I.S.                              121      563      684          35        107         18      160
I .N. I .G.                           64       551      615          17         74         14      105
I.S.T. Gabes                            5      163      168           8         17          8       33
I.S.T.I. - Mines Gafta                 23      345      368           9         22          4       35
SUS-TOTAL                     1,079    5.776    6,855         158        615        181      954



ANNEX I                                                                                  ANE  I
Peg  2 of 10                                               -40 -                         Page 2 of  0
TABLE 1s   HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENT NUM9ERS BY GENDER
AND ACADENIC STAFF, BY DISCIPLINE AND INSTITUTION
Students Enr o led                   NLaber of tewhersc
Institutea/Faculttie             Finalo    Malo    TOTAL    Prof.&         AM         Autros      TOTAL
_ NaIt.Conf.  Maf.Aes.   Cat"g.
Teecher Trng. Inst. - Tuni              82        63       145                                 14        14
Teacher Trin. Inst. -N. Ayari          102       134       236                                 19        19
Teacher Trng. Inst. - Korba             75        73       148                                 21        21
Teahor Trng. Inst. -Jondoub             68        67       135                                 16        16
Tecwher Trng. Inst. -Nteur              60        99       159                                 21        21
Teacher Tren. Inst. * sou- s            81       113       194                                 13        13
Teacher Trng. Inst. - Kaircuan          75       131       206                                 22        22
Teacher Trng. Inst. - Sfax              74        77       151                                  7         7
Teacher Trng. tInt. -Gabes              63       114       17t                                 17        17
tUITOTAL                          680       871      551           0           0        150       150
TOTAL M.E.S.                        24,727   384810                    630       2,100        762    3,49
it. JOINTLY FUNDED DEPARTMENTS
NEDICAL SCIENCES
Hlgher Inst. of Health - Tunie         760       288      1048          12          57         53       122
Higher Inst. of HeaIth - Nonsti        221        69       290           0           0          0         0
Highor Inst. of Health - Stax          247        55       302          12           0          0        12
SUBTOTAL                          1228       412      1640          24          57         53       134
ART. HWMANITIES. SOCIAL SCIENCES
ANID ISLAMIC STQUD I
Higher Inst. Cultural Affafrs           42        53        95           0          10          5        1S
HNgher Inst. of Drmaeic Art              19       31        50           0          10          5        15
HNgher inst. of Ytei                     8        47        55           0           1          5         6
E.N.S.E.P. Kear Said                    115      422       537           2          47         23        72
E.H.C.J. Bir alt By                      8        40        48           0           7          9        16
Higher Inst. Child Dev.                 114       38       152           2           0         17        19
Net. Srh(. of Phys. Ed. - Sfax          50       120       170           0           1         41        42
SUBTOTAL                        356       751      1107           4          76        105       185
LAW  ECNOIQ
National Instftuto of work              194      163       357            1         11          1        13
I.S. Hot. Sidf Dhrif                    63       209       272           0           0         24        24
SUBTOTAL                           257       372       629           1          11         25        37
ENGINEERING SEC
School of Tolecoumifeatiors              36      178       214           0           6         10        16
School of Civfl Aviation                  5       30        35            1          0         24        25
SUtTOTAL                          41       208       249           1           6         34        41
AGRICULTURE & FOOD SERVICES
Nat. 5ch. of Veterinary Studfes          57      184       241           0           3         33        36
I.N.A.T.                               120       326       446          48          42          4        94
School of Food Proeeesing                49      125       174           3           6          9        18
School of Agriculture - Nogrwn           24      152       176            1         19          6        26
E.S.I.E.R. Mojez El lab                  16      190       206            1         19         12        32
School of Agriculture - Mateur           18       74        92           3          11          9        23
Schoot of Agricultur  - Le K1f           17       75        92           3           7          8        18
Inst. of Forestry & Grazing                       25        25           0           5          8        13
Sch. Horticulture - Chott Nerlf          79      171       250           9          26          4        39
SUtTOTAL                          380      1322      1702          68         138         93       299
TOTAL JOINTLY FUNDED DEPARThENTS    2.262    3.065   5327              98         288        310       696
GRAND TOTAL                         26.989   41,546   688535,Y3        72        2.388      1,72    4. 188
H.E.S. & JOINTLY FUNDED DEPTS.



2                              -    r5      -                                                                  0    Ei! 3i'          f      
-b S n ;; 5l  l;  S   * 80  -|   g                               O D
i6                                                                            -    -
X ~ ~~~                                I |  |   3. |                                      * *   I I |||-
2         I4 Sb                                                                                           WI IBX |5        sI o13
Mm~~~~~~~~~~~
0 
|   |                                                            g O&               9     S 2 13n 
a~5                                       -a 
I~~~~~~~~~~                                          I I          I  I  f                    
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0        -- ----------------                                     - ----------- - - -5--
o                                         .4~~~~~~ 
m                                                >~~~~~~~~~~~ 
z 1
g-                                 -          0                                                     - - - - - - - ... - 
0I   -.;           I&              0n   *0
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~~  ~Ze a                2II           0                                     5         , 1 
.0-           -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   -                  -   -   -   -    -   - -   -   -   -    -   -



- 42 -
ANNEX I                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10                                                                Page 4 of 10
CHART 1: HIGHER EDUCATION RECURRENT BUDGET ALLOCATION
Salaries
48.96%
Admin. Expenditures                                                  Other Expenditures
2.25                               ~~~~~~~0,32%
Establishments' Recurr. Exp.
29,06%
3 7%                     Students, Scholarships; Lodging
Scientific Research                                  and meals



ANNEX I                                                                                                                ANNEX I
Pgte S d 10                                             TABLE 4: RECURRENT AND INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES                 Peg 5 of 10
A. Evoution of Om recurrent expenditures by studet In the higher education instiutdone financed by MES
for the eiod 1p90-110  (in thousand dinrms)
1980     1081    1982      1083     1084     1065     19      1997     1068"    10       19B0     1991
salries                        14,335   17,591   24,022   25,041   28.0908   30.207   35.363   37,096   40,447   46.115   51 ,41    03.620
non-sutay                       S.804    5,064    7.787    8,763   12,103   13,828   13.462   14.220   15,649   16.6t4   1.300   25.1S5
traners                        11.603   12.746   10.470   18.654   18.367   19.797   19,675   22,050   21.66   28.61t  342865  35.314
Total rneuent budget           31.802   30.000   42,279   52.448   58.5eo   03,830   68,400   74,268   77,702   91.370  105.013  124.089
DOfatordoniesocabsorption        100   110.47   126.83   138.64   151.65   161.78   172.76   186.23   205.30   219.30   232.75   247.07
recurent budget (contan        31.802   32,588   33,335   37.830   38.610   30,455   30,s02   39.880   37.86    41.6e4   45.118   50.224
salrie (conan                  14,335   15.024   18.940   18.062   18.527   18.672   20.466   20.404   19.701   21.028   22.092   25.750
non salry (condt)               5,804    5.127    6.140    6.313    7.981    8.548    7.792    7.636    7,623    7,612    8,29s   10.181
trandfer(conta                 11.663   11,537    8,255   13,455   12.111   12.237   11.331   11.840   10,653   13.024   14,731   1423
Enroliment                     25.602   27,27    28.449   29,673   30,856   34,860   37.425   37.190   40,441   50947   58,872   63,208 
recurrentexpendtureldudent       1.24     1.10     1.17     128      1.25     1.13     1.06     1.07     0.94     0.82     0.77     0.79
sarestudent                      0.56     0.58     0.67     0.61     0.60     0.54     0.55     0.55     0.49     0.41     0.38     0.41
non salaryhtudent                0.23     0.19     0.22     0.21     0.26     0.25     0.21     0.21     0.19     0.15     0.14     0.16
transferstudent                  0.46     0.42     029      e.45     0.39     0.35     0.30     0.32     026      0m       0.25     0.23
B. Evolution of the higher educatn iwment budget for the period 1960-10M
In thouand diners)
1980     1981     1982     1983     1984     1965    106    1067      1968     196      1990     1991
INVESTMENT BUDGET                       9000      8498    10092    11644    11841    196      11248    14500   19800    24400    34447
Dllatordomneetiorpdon            100   110.47   126.83   138.64   151.65   161.78   172.76   186.23   205.30   219.30   232.75   247.07
Invstnent budget (constant)              8e90     6700     7928     7078     7319    11151     6040     7063    6882    10483    13042



- 44 -
ANNEX I                                                      ANNEX I
Page 6, of1O                                                 Page 6 of 10
TABLE 5 - NUMBER OF THIRD CYCLE THESES AND STATE DOCTORATES (1 988/g89 (*
Number of          Number of
UNIVERSIrT        Third Cycle Theses    State Doctorates   Total
EZZITOUNA                      2                                   2
TUNIS I                        9                   1              10
TUNIS II                       4                  _                4
TUNIS III                     18                   1              19
CENTRE (Sousse)                _                  _                _
SUD (Sfax)                     1                                   1
TOTAL                         34                  2               36
() Figures extracted from statistical survey of November 15, 1989.
State Doctorates In medicine not taken Into account.



- 45 -
ANNEX I                                                                               ANNEX I
Page 7 of 10                                                                         Page 7 of 10
TABLES: STUDENT REPETITION RATE IN A SELECTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION
INSTITUTIONS - 198990
Repeating
Inutitutions                                    Repeating Once     Repeating Twice    Many Tilmes
1, TECHNICAtL 8CIENCES
Eole Nationald d'lngenleurs de Gabes (L,P)             28%                40%              33%A
(M.P)       48%                24%              28%
Ecole Normals Sup. de l'Ens. Tehnique                  68%                25%              17%
Inst. Tehnol. d'Art d'Arch. & d'Urbanisme (L.P)         3%                12%              85%
(M.P)       46%                19%              36%
Inditut Super. Technique de Gab.s (S.P)                58%                28%              14%
Indtitut Sup. Tochn. des Ind. &des MInss (S.P)         78%                14%               9%
Institut Sup. Technique de Ksar-Hollal (S.P)           89%                3%                8%A
!1 - MEDICAL SCIENCE8
Faculte de Medecine de Tunis (L.P)                     23%                35%              43%
(SP)       52%               29%               19%
Faoulte de Medecine de Monestir (L.P)                  26%                39%              35%
Faculte de Modecine de Sousse (L.P)                    27%                33%              40%
(SP)       43%               28%               30%
Faculte de Medoolne de Sfax (L.P)                      20%                34%              48%
(S.P)       50%               23%               27%
Faculte de Pharmacle de Monastir (L.P)                 26%                37%              38%
(S.P)       21%               30%               49%
Faculte de Medecine Dentalre de Monagtir (L. P)        39%                39%              23%
(S.P)       38%               19%               45%
111. FUNDAMENTAL SCIENCES
Faculte des Scienoes de Tunis (-)                       6%                13%              82%
Faculte des Sciences de Monastlr                        6%                26%              e9%
Ecole Normale Superleure de Bizerte                    21%                25%              644%
IV. HUMAN SCIENCES
Institut Superleur des LAngues Vivantes                18%                19%              64%
Eode Normale Superieure de Souse.                      22%                27%              61%
V. SOCIAL SCIENCES
Fac. doe Sc. Eoo. & de Gestlon de Tunis                13%                24%              63%
Fac. des So. Eoo. & de Godion de Sfax                  22%                24%              64%
Fac de Drodt & des Sc. Politiques de Tunis             6%                16%              79%
Fac. des Hautes Etudes Commerciales                    23%                25%              52%
Inst. Superiour de Gosdon                              27%                28%              44%
Inst. de Pree  & des Sc. de l'Information              20%                1%               655%
Ex) Ecluding 2 engineering disciplines
(S.P) * Short program (M.P) - Medium Program (L.P) -Long Program



- 46 -
ANNEX I                                                                ANNEX I
Page 8 of 10                                                       Page 8 of 10
TABLE 7: STUDENT ACADEMIC STAFF RATIO BY DISCIPLINE - MES - 1986/91
Discipline               86/87       87/88       88/89       89/90      90/91
Humanities                  22          20          21          19         22
Social Sciences             21          25          30          31         29
Fundamental Science          9          11          15          17         15
Medical Sciences             8           8           8           9          8
Engineering                  7           7           8           8          7
OVERALL RATIO               12          12          1S          15



- 47 -
ANNEX I                                                                                                         AEX  I
Page 9 of 10                                                                                               PogeP of 10
TABLE 8   STUDENT STAFF RATIO BY ORADE   1990
Number of students por               Overall
ESTABLISINSs OF ME .S.                                                                                              Student
other        Teeching
Prof.     Assist. &      tching           Staff
& M.C.    M. Assist,        staff          Ratio
1.  HUANITIES. ART. SOCIAL & ISLAMIC SCIENCES
Instituto of Theology                                                          as           46              323            28
Inatitut' of Roligious Sciences                                               140           47              979            34
Institute of Preaching                                                         90          162                             58
U. Fac. or Literature   Nanouba                                               193            36             132            25
U. Fec. Humanities & Social Sciences   Tunis                                  135           48              337            32
U. Fac. of Literatur-  Karouan                                                543           28               82            20
U. Fac. Humanities & Social Sciances   Sfax                                    13            36             127            27
Higher Institute of Modern Languages                                           69            13               8             5
Faculty of Humanitis - Sousse                                                 231           12              139            10
Faculty of Literature   Sousse
Faculty of Humanities   Tunis                                                                                 7             7
Faculty of Humanitios   Hateur                                                                               11            11
tnstitute of Journallsm  & Information Sciences                               139           19               46            12
Higher Institute of Documentation                                                           76                             76
SECTOR AVZRAOE                                                      163           35               73            21
2.  LEGAL. ECoMIC a MANAGEDHET SCIENCES
U. Fec. Economics   Management Sciences   Tunis                               345           27              230            23
U. Fec. Economic* S Management Sciences   Sfax                                268           67             1745            52
U. Fec. Law B Political Sciences   Tunis                                       64           90              299            33
U. Fec. Jurldiquo & Political Sciences   Tunis                                423           57                             50
U. Fac. of Law   Sousse                                                       869           48              669            43
Higher Instituto of Business Administration                                   206           21              411            18
Higher Institute of AdminWstration                                            171            34             134            23
Higher Inatitute of Accounting   Tunis                                                      69              174            50
Higher Institute Hotel G Comorcial Admints.   Tunis                           314           24                             22
SECTOR AVERAGE                                                      220           41             381             32
3.  FVIDASMAL SCIENCES
U. Foe. of Sciences   Tunis                                                    55           25             5607            17
U. Fec. of Sclences   Monaster                                                 69           22              381            16
U. Fec. of Sciences - Sfax                                                     70           35             1327            23
Teachor Training School   Bixorte                                              38            13                            10
SECTOR AVERAGE                                                       57           24            1532             17
4. TEMCICAL SCIENCES. ENoINEERINo
National School of Engineers - Tunis                                           40           10               48             7
Preparatory Institute for Engineerlng Studies - Nabaul                        105           25               39            1'
National School for Engineers   Monactir                                       93           11               47             8
Natlonal School for Engineors   Sfax                                           30            7               71             5
National School for Engineers   Gabes                                          50            9               36             6
National School for Informational Scienco                                     38             8              77             6
TSacher Training School for Technical Education                                69            12              90             9
Higher Technical Institute   Nabaur                                            72           21              163            15
Higher Technical Institute   Gabes                                             81           12               15             6
Higher T chnical Institute Industry & Mines                                    45           16              156            11
Technological Inatitute Art, Architec. & Urbaniem                             432            11              43             9
Higher Technical Institute -serHollal                                          83             8              52             6
SECTOR AVERAGE                                                       59           11              53              8
S. MEDICAL & BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
U. Fec. of Medlcine   Tunis                                                    16            10              79             6
U. Fec. of Medicine   Monasttir                                                44           22                             15
U. Fec. of Medicine   Sousse                                                   27            18             339            10
U. Fee. of Medicine   Sfax                                                     36           24              545            14
U. Fec. of Phrmecy   Monastir                                                  43           15              447            11
U. Fec. of Dentistry   Monastir                                                50           41              326            21
JEnR AVERAOE                                                         25           15             167
ULOBAL RATIO                                                         78           24             124             16



- 48 -
AUIEM  I                                                                                                  AZNN1  I
Past 10 of 10                                                                                      Page 10 of 10
MWRT 2: 85DET FLOW IN TMi UNIVERSITY FWROM S 8UCTU            uiE U IDL3hL EFFICIET
322
Iobtain 2nd cycle diplomas
master at the end of 4th
98                         .4~                       ~28
abandon their  studies during                                                   obtain a paramedical
the 2nd cycle but receive                                                   diploma at the end of the
let cycle diploma                                                                3rd year
122
:~~~'~. ~~  ~           obtain a high level
_  ~~~~ ~technician'sa diploma at the
and of the 2nd year
430
abandon studies during let
cycle (those who fail or
voluntarily drop out)
H I G H E R E D U C A T I O N
B A C C A L A U R E A T
S E C O N D A R Y    E D U C A T I O N



- 49 -
ANNEX II                                                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10                                                        Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Higher Institutes of Technology (ISET)
1.          The proposed program will support the establishment of the first
tranche of five ISETs included in the Eighth Plan in Tunisia's main economic
and industrial centers, viz. Tunis, Sousse, Sfax, Nabeul and Gabes. These
institutes will be distinct from the universities and geared toward meeting
labor market needs, and will offer short programs to train technicians and
middle managers at a more effective cost per graduate. Their principal
characteristics and the schedule for their establishment are discussed below
and summarized in the following table.
I.          LEGAL STATUS
2.          The ISET will have the status of "Etablissement Public a Caract6re
Sclentlfique et Technologlque" to give them greater financial and
administrative autonomy so that they can, in particular, manage their own
resources, include employers in their management boards, charge fees for
services, hire teachers on fixed-term contracts, offer in-service training
programs, sign contractual agreements to promote technology transfers and, in
general terms, adapt their programs and pedagogy to the needs of their
environment.
3.          At the nationwide level, a unit in charge of Higher Technological
Studies will be established, with the mission to guide and monitor the ISET
network. It is to be consulted on:
-     the establishment of new ISETs and the departments they ought to
contain;
-     the introduction of new disciplines (new departments or options)
and definition of relevant programs;
-    course content, assessments, in-service training arrangements, and
conditions of access to the ISETs;
-     revision of existing programs to adapt them to technological and
sociological changes.



- 50 -
ANEX II                                                                                                 ANNEX II
Page  2 of 10
ISETS MAIN CHARACTERISTICS
NUMBER    NUMBEF            AREAS    DATE
STUDENTS  PROFESSORS          Mg    OF OPENING
1904 1066
T..IS                                f4          IP            21* .*
Mehanical E6_ne0n                    20         20
Elolr.& electronb  Engnwing.          200        20
CMI Enginern                          200        20
Management                            260         24
AdmIrldtratonlOffe technology         200         24
Maketng                               290        24
"          ~~NMBUL..                              1 :   460:  I M : -.si00  
Mecnikal EngInen                      290         20
Bectr. & eecronic Engirng             290         20
Indusia Meohann                       290        29
Mwnamet                               290         24
AdminlbelaonlOffioe teohnology        290         24
WAX.. i                              14*  0    t2          .:1?.765.
Mchanil Engineeng                     290         20
910tehnog                             200         20
Management                            290         24
AdmnIatonlffic tehnology              290         23
Makeno                                290         24                           r
OU8St:. :.                           11 - .    i5  X111>:    -    4.800
ectr. &  ectron  En n                 2           20
Indura Maintenanc                     290         20
Manag_ment                            200         24
Socol al o j&   agl                   200         24
Mechanical Englneing                  200         20
Cvil Enolgonei                        290         20
Managemt                              290         24                    .
TOTAL             670         we
* Shedubd opening yea f depafMnt (progree   re _unent
of2 groups of 30 uludnt for ech nfy date)



- 51 -
ANNEX II                                                                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10                                                        Page 3 of 10
II.         MANAGEMENT OF THE ISET
4.          Each ISET will be managed by a director who will be supported by
the following organs:
(a)   The Management Committee, consisting of the director of the ISET,
his/her deputy, department directors ard four representatives of
the economic environment. Its function is to define the
institution's general policy, propose the introduction or
conversion of curriculum components, submit its provisional
budget, and approve all agreements made by the institution with
its economic environment.
(b)   The Scientific and Technological Committee will oversee curriculum
content (introduction or conversion of disciplines), pedagogic
methods, the validation of diplomas, and policy on research and
technology transfers.
(c)   Each deDartment will have a council and a director.  The council
is to consist of five elected teachers, two representatives from
relevant professions, and a representative of the technical and
administrative personnel, and is headed by the department
director. The council is responsible for the implementation and
coordination of training programs and for improving pedagogical
methods. It proposes programs of applied research, in-service
training and technology transfers.
III.        DISCIPLINES AND OPTIONS
5.          Each ISET department will provide a standard, nationwide training
program that will account for at least 70X of the course hours involved.
6.          Within each discipline, options will be available to students, as
needed and in light of technical developments and the demand from firms, once
they have completed at least two semesters of a common core that provides the
scientific and technical foundation of the relevant skill area.
7.          In addition, curriculum content may be adapted, up to a limit of
301 of course hours, to the technical needs of local firms in order to enhance
the operational capacity of graduates in those firms. The following
departments are planned:
Service sector
*     Management
*     Administration; Office Technology; Communications;
Documentation
*     Marketing
*     Social and legal affairs



- 52 -
ANNEX II                                                                ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10                                                        Page 4 of 10
-     Industrial sector
*     Mechanical Engineering and Automated Production
*     Electrical and Electronic Engineering
*     Chemical Engineering
*     Civil Engineering and Mining
*     Agri-Food, Fisheries and Bio-Technology
*     Industrial Maintenance
8.          In the typical configuration, each department will contain 12
groups of 30 students, i.e. on the basis of an average of five departments per
ISET, there will be 1,500 to 1,800 students per ISET.
IV.         TEACHING STAFF
9.          The ISET's professors will have a different status from university
professors. Their recruitment, career possibilities and service conditions
have been designed so as to encourage the recruitment of specialists, promote
links with industrial firms, especially regarding technology transfer and in-
service training, involve teachers in the professional orientation of students
and in monitoring their success and achievements, reduce training costs by
introducing an annual teaching load of 384 hours a year and an equivalent
number of hours of student counseling (or 12 course hours a week compared with
four and a half hours a week in higher education). In return, more attractive
career prospects and remuneration will be offered.
10.         To implement this program, the Government will progressively
create about 600 new teaching positions and about 300 technical and
administrative positions to create the tenured work force of the ISETs. When
the ISETs are operating at full capacity, this teaching staff will be
responsible for about 70X of the teaching load, the balance being covered
mainly by teachers contracted from among practicing professionals. The
permanent teaching staff will be recruited from among: (i) graduates with a
minimum of Baccalaureat plus four years (master's degree holders or works
engineers) or Baccalaureat plus six years (design engineers); (ii) Tunisian
students with equivalent qualifications pursuing their studies abroad in the
appropriate disciplines; (iii) professionals in industry and the service
sector; (iv) IST teachers. All the tenured staff will receive specific
training whose duration and content will depend on their background and
experience and the disciplines they are to teach. Annex III contains a
detailed description of this training.
V.          SELECTION OF STUDENTS
11.         The number of students will be limited; they will be selected from
among baccalaureat holders on the basis of their academic record and possibly
of interviews to assess motivation; a few places will be reserved for non-
baccalaurdat holders who have received an adequate education and have had
professional experience.



- 53 -
ANNEX II                                                                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10                                                          Page 5 of 10
12.         The selection process will take place twice a year, at the
beginning of the academic year in September and in February. Within each
academic year there will be two staggered semesters of identical courses that
will allow for immediate "repetition." The introduction of this staggered
cycle will make it possible both to reduce the dropout rate by giving students
who fail in the first quarter a chance to repeat the course, and to reduce the
repetition rate, since only one semester of classes will be involved. In
addition, the February entry will make things easier for university students
who want to change their original choice and opt for short-term professional
training.
VI.         DIPLOMAS AND ANTICIPATED PROFESSIONAL OUTLETS
13.         The diplomas awarded by the ISETs will be national diplomas that
will guarantee that the curriculum, in terms of course content, hours of
instruction, end-of-course project performance, in-service training and skills
assessment, has been applied uniformly across the country. It offers both
public and private employers an assurance of quality.
14.         The high-level technician occupies a special position in the firm,
which the study carried out by "Comete Engineering" during project preparation
defines as that of an information channel between management and workers. The
high-level technician must understand the language of the planner and
translate it into specific, structured commands in order to optimize
production. The study referred to also points out very marked deficiencies in
all sectors of Tunisia's economy, particularly computerized management, modes
of production organization, maintenance, and so forth. According to directors
of firms, there ought right now to be two or three times as many high-level
technicians as there actually are.
VII.        PEDAGO
15.         The courses are phased over five semesters of 16 weeks with the
following objectives:
-     First semester (possibly including a short period of sensitization
and homogenization):
-     Acquisition of common foundation, particularly in terms of
general education, with the emphasis on basic languages
-     Initiation into new methods of data processing (personal
computers)
-     Introduction to the technological aspects of the subject.
Second. third and fourth semesters
-     Scientific and technological training in the discipline,
without neglecting general training.



- 54 -
ANNEX II                                                                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10                                                          Page 6 of 10
It should be noted that options become available from the start of
the third or fourth semester. The second semester, at a minimum,
is devoted to the common core for the subject.
-     fifth semester
-     Additional training, particularly familiarization with
business culture
-     An end-of-course project including in-service training in a
firm for 8 to 12 weeks.
VIII.       STANDARD COURSE LAYOUT
16.         The student's standard course hours are shown in Table 3.  The
total teaching load (Table 2) was determined on the basis of practical work in
half-groups, giving a total of 2,766 hours in an industry sector department
and 2,410 in a service sector department. The corresponding departmental
teaching load is thus estimated as follows:
TABLE 2: TEACHING LOAD IN HOURS BY TYPE OF DEPARTMENT*
$01ster1   Semester 2    Semester 3    Semestr 4 Smeder6
Number  groups         6          6         6           5          5
Houn;/group
mdus*ay sector      600        672        672        672        1S0     2768
svlces sector       640        676        67         576        160     2418
Toal Indusbty sector  3.600     4.032      4.032      3.360       750      15.774
d-astent
Ta  IVIes sector      3,240     3.456      3,456      Z860        760      13.782
den
This calculon does not rIclude other Instructlon-related loads, such as supeMalon of In-service training and projects.
which represent a signmcant condsraint.
* Thi estimate could be refined In light d the oem course layout (Table 3).



- 55 -
ANNEX II                                                                                                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10                                                                                        Page 7 of 10
TABLE 3: Standard Course Layout
Course hoUrS per studen   swnester I    Semester    Semeste    semester     eeswter               Total
2           3           4           5
NWSTRY SECTOR
DEPAllTElIT
Genwe hInuction               240          96          96          98          76         603 /S/             29
Technological! instrudion _____ ____
8UpHt work (1)            120          192         192         192          76        771     562          37
PactlcJwork (1)           120                                  192                     68      47.6
240         384         384         34           75      16 147      100        71
TOTAL                     480          480         480         480        150 (2)    Z070        //       100
SERVICES SECTOR
Ge     nstnuction             240          98          96          96          75         603       //        29
Teh logica Instruction d
Supensd Wc*k (1)           160         288         288         288          76       1.119       76        64
Practl  Work (1)                        6           98A                                348     -a tg
240         384         384         384          75      1A487       100        71
TOTAL                     480          480         480         480        150 (2)    2.070    ////        100
(1)      The supevie work Is d"ened to peas on concepts which will be assimilted through applied In exercses The instcor
theeo  mae the trang pronss through direct conted wlth his group of students, which Is th basic unit d the depa_lnwit A
woup conins a maxnum 0 30 studt, the opumum number bent lower tham this The wperwsed Wor  the undatiof d
intucton In th ISET, and covers all the general instntion and most of the technological Insttction.
7he -pactc work Is binten  to proide an opportunity for the pertfmance of techni  opai    using equlpment and based on
apecmf  objectives, iis pracia work Is generally carried out In hall-groups. Certan speca techuloga dscipls mnay uty
ewn smallr units for practc worK quarter-groups for example.
(2)      The btulk of the fft semet  should be devoted to cany"ng out an end -course project requiring 8 to 12 wree  In-service trainig In
a fim  Tbis phase Is desned to strengthen sidlls acquired earler, but above all to prepare the students to take on responsIbIlty a
put of the promPct and exercie greater self-management in the traning process
ND I     i was explained at (1) above that the group Is the basic unit of InstucUon. However, group subdMslon for purpos  of practical work
mns that the teahing lood for a grup exceeds the total course houS per student
For exanple.  pretical Wk Is carted out In half-groups, the student hous shown above, on a group bass, ghoi
-       for an industry ctor department an overall teaching lod of 2766 hours
bfor a servic  ctor depamentn an overall teaching load of 2410 hor
NB. 2    The tab   own above may evidly change comnerby wen the StudiS d needs and programs hae been compleed; In
pWtculer. I Is poba  tat th overall seic  sector load could be smewhat reduced



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................                        ...................... ............... ...................... .......      ................  ........ ...... ......... ........ j......... .. ...... .... ...... ..........
:   Sept, -                   Feb.                        Sept.. Feb.                                                Sep.                         Feb.                     ;
............  .1 ...                                                                                        ............ . I
.             ..  .....                  ....                                                                      .... '  fS...... . S  ,.....r .4 S.S* . ..S.: SA .- _
.. . -. \ A - * \ X ,vA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                         .... ...
.......... .........,           ,_ .. ................... ,.,...  e............. :,.w' SW'j'"''
~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......                         ..............                                            ..   ...                    .. .   .. .                   .. . .   :.. :. c   .. . .. . .. .   .. .  .. .   .. ..  _....     ...   *     i_3%^........
.     . . .   . .   . . . . .   '   . '. . . ' . , . ' . ' '  . . . . . . . .     A    . . . . .      '        .   '.   . . . .    ''                     '. '            . ' . ' . ' ' ' . ' . ' ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '   '   ' . ' . .'. . '   . . . .  ' .' . .   . . ' '   . .'.
*             Eflteringstudents   38                                       40             50            43            51             48            50             48            4?                  48 3 
NOTS
.me ISEV systern would have the following yield for 150 students recruited                                                      LEGNDiD
.. ..    ... .  .................. .. . .. .......... .. . . ....   .....   .       .....       .             ..  ......  .....                      ..........................  .......  ..... . ....    .     .............
In epernerand                                                                                                                                          Semest, ,,,     er of lb weeks (starting Sept.& Feb)
* 120 woud otain their degree, of whih 33 wold  have repeated one semnester.followedyb2 2oor3 weekstforttests.
... ...  . ... .... .......................                                                                                                                                               .... ........ ... . .........
*33 would dropout after repeating 1 semnester, of which 23, students would have
alreadyattended 1, 2. or 3 semesters oftcourses~                                                                           ,                            Normal student progression
;.......... ...  ..............   ........... ...........   ...I .. . .                                                                                                          .; .. .. ...              . ...... ... ... ................
Numbe of group                   Os 13stdnts bydepartmen functonning at full                                             ,,aIy           .-                   tdns                  Ion  eetr
SetiFeb.: 4 groupsInSeesterl 1                                                                                             _--                         St etrepeti
4 groups In Semester 3                                                                    ,                                         Students dropping-ot when falling after
................................................. ...................  ............... ............... ...........  ..... ......  ........                           .............  .............             .. .... .... .......
2groupslSemster4.3grousnlntershlps                                                        ;                                         repai !n.g,,one,semeste 
. a       ,1,2group  studying *t +3groups ,In,,nterns,,,lp ,,,,,;
febJJune. 2 groupsln Semester lA  .
..  ............. ................... .............. ............. . A.... .. ................ ................................................. rusISe str3, 
total:               11 groups studying  e.2 groups 1n internshilps .,                                                                                                                                                                             -
.   . . .   .   . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   . . .  . . .   . . .   . . . . .                                 0 ,.                                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .........................;.......



- 57 -
ANNEX II                                                                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10                                                         Page 9 of 10
IX.         SPATIAL ORAIATION AND ESTIMATE OF AREAS
17.         Three major categories of departments in the ISETs can be
identified:
Departments reguiring onlv light eguiRment: These require no
special premises, specific furniture or heavy equipment, but
rather all-purpose rooms for courses, supervised work and tests,
and so forth, along with some rooms with special electrical
equipment, external security for the personal computers, and
language laboratories. A typical department of this kind would
require 15 rooms for supervised work with 130 places, four
specially equipped rooms with 130 places, and four small rooms for
work in half-groups, plus administrative offices and a teachers'
common room.
DeDartments recuirina laboratories: Tnese need no special
premises for heavy equipment, but a quantity of all-purpose rooms
like the other departments and a number of special-purpose rooms,
laboratories and technical installations.
DeRartments reguiring workshops: These need similar facilities as
regards all-purpose rooms, although their diwensions may vary in
light of special requirements; however, they also need premises
for heavy machinery and equipment and a number of specialized
rooms for laboratories and technical installations.
18.         The areas needed for these three types of department were
calculated on the basis of these special features and made it possible to
calculate work areas, which were then adjusted by a coefficient incorporating
the need for corridors, stairways, exits, etc., and resulted in the following
total standard areas, to which common spaces and administration areas should
be added for each ISET, viz. 2,000 to 3,500 m2:
Departments with light equipment:   2,100 m2
Departments with laboratories:        3,500 m2
Departments with workshops:           4,000 i2
X.          EOUIPMENT
19.         The equipment requi-ed by, and the preparation of programs of
instruction for, each department will be determined in light of a survey
focusing in particular on the needs of firms, the economic development outlook
and local conditions. It is estimated that expert services will be needed to
carry out this survey at the rate of five expert-months for each of the 11
departments, or around 55 expert-months, of which about 50X would be Tunisian
experts. It is planned to conduct the studies during the year 1992. An
overall estimate of equipment needs, including furniture and textbooks, has
been prepared on the basis of comparisons with comparable training
institutions in Europe and Tunisia (Nabeul IST) and the cost by ISET is
presented in Table 4.



- 58 -
ANNEX II                                                                      ANNEX II
Page lo of 10                                                              Page 10 of 10
TABLE 4: SUMMARY TABLE OF THE SURFACE AREAS AND THE REALISATION COSTS OF THE ISET - CIVIL WORKS
TOTAL PER
NABEUL   TUNIS  SOUSSE   SFAX    GABES          CATEGORY
Akea In m2                                                                    (Total In m2)
Area needed                     10,000   21,200   14,350   17.750   13,050           62,350
Existing area                   16.000        0        0        0    6,250           21,250
Are to be bullt                      0   21,200   14,350   17,760    7,800           01.100
Are to be trandformed       Ught work         0        0        0    5,250            5,250
SURFACE AREA NEEDED             16,000   21.200   14,350   17,760   13,050           82,350
Cet of Civil Work*                                                            (Total in 0fl
(in 000 DT 1991)
Cost of rehabilitation 91            0        0        0        0     (350)        (350.000)
Cost of transformatlon             350        0        0        0      626          875,000
Cost of condruction                  0    8,480    5,740    7,100    3,120        24.440,000
Techn. Studies (2%  + 7%)           s0      783      517      639      470         2,439,000
Additlonal work                      0      300      200       60        0          650.000
Kitchen equipment                   0       3S0      300      300      300         1,200,000
TOTAL COSTS OF CIVIL WORKS         400    9,843    6,757    8,089    4,415        29.604,000
Cost of Land                                                                  (Total in DT)
(In 000 DT 1991)
Acquisition costs                    0    1.350    1,260    2.000        0         4,600,000
EgulpmentlFumishina Costs                                                     (Total in oT)
(in 000 DT 1991)
EqulpmentlFumishing Coats        2,386    4.980    3,136    3,820    2.810        17,110.000
(Total In DT)
TOTAL COSTS                      2,785   16,163   11,142   13,909    7,225        61,214,000
(in 000 OT 1991)
Exdlanatory Notes
1 The constructlon costs of the ISETs have been calculated on the baesi of 400 DTlm2
2. Transformation costs of the IST of Naboul into an ISET have been estimated on the basis of a lump sum (DT 350,000)
for the adaptation work; the fees for the adaptation study represent also a lump sum (DT 50.000)
3. Transformation costs of the IST of Gabes (former Center of Professional Training) into an ISET hav been estimated
on the basis of 100 DT/m3. taking Into account the rehabilitation work carried out In 1991
4. The tees for the technical studies have been calculated on the basis of 2% of the construction costs
estimated for the topographical surveys and geotechnical studies, and on the basis of 7% of the construction
costs estimated for the architectural and engineering studies
5. The coets of the land are figures given by the project preparation team (the costs of the land at Gabes have been left out)
0. The costs of fumiture and scientific equipment represent estimates made by the project preparation team



- 59 -
Annex III                                                               Annex III
Page 1 of 7                                                           Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRAINING OF THE ISET'I TEACHING STAFF
Because of the nature of the courses offered at the ISETs, which
stress both practical experience and exposure to the economic and industrial
environment, and the need to guarantee a low teacher-student ratio, it is
necessary to have specialized professors who combine high-level theoretical
and technological qualifications with a good knowledge of the present-day
industrial practice.
This type of specialized professor does not currently exist in
Tunisia and the existing institutes of higher education are not staffed or
equipped to produce them.
To meet these requirements, it is proposed that a new category of
professors be created, so that multidisciplinary teaching teams are able to
work together on a training program geared toward labor market needs. These
professors will be a mixture of generalists (trained, for example, in english
or applied mathematics) and specialists (such as management, finance, or
electronics).
This new category of academics will meet not only the ISET's need
for trainers, pursuant to the country's eighth and ninth economic and social
development plans (i.e. 11 to 12 ISETs), but also some of the needs of the
existing engineering schools and other technical and management training
institutions.
I.          INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TEACHERS - ESTIMATED NUMBERS NEEDED
It is estimated that 610 such staff will need to be appointed for
the period 1994-1999, i.e. an average of just over 100 such professors a year.
This figure is for the five ISETs proposed in the eighth plan, and is based on
the parameters relating to:
the number and disciplines of the departments for each institute;
the number and size of student groups;
the nature of the courses;
the statutory requirements affecting this new category of staff
(384 hours class contact per academic year, plus additional
teaching-related assignments)



- 60 -
Annex III                                                                Annex III
Page 2 of 7                                                           Page 2 of 7
Broken down by discipline, the number of professors needed for the
five first-tranche ISETs is as follows:
Discl2ip s                     IgTotal professors needed Average annual inflow
Mechanical engineering                     69                       11
Electrical and electronic engineering    92                         16
Industrial maintenance                     46                        8
Civil engineering                          23                        4
Biotechnology, chemistry                   44                        7
Management                                 90                       15
Office technology                          54                        9
Commercial techniques                      36                        6
Sociological, paralegal                    18                        3
Mathematics                                46                        8
English                                    46                        8
Communication techniques                   46                        8
TOTAL                                     610                      102
The estimated figures relate exclusively to the first tranche of
these new institutes, but it should be stressed that the long-term needs are
much higher and will assure the program's sustainability. These needs will be
generated by:
the second tranche of the ISET program;
the engineering schools, to gradually replace the present
professors supplied by the bilateral technical assistance services;
the need in this area will be substantial;
the vocational training centers that will be set up to retrain an
increasing number of giaduates of higher education to enable them
to meet the requirements of industry;
the final year of secondary school for the technological
disciplines (similar to the role of the agr6g6s (State-licensed
teachers) employed in such schools).
II.         TRAINING PROGRAN FOR INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TEACHERS
Since the country has high requirements for its ISET professors in
terms both of quality and of quantity, not only during the period of the eighth
plan but also during the next decade, their training plan is of vital
importance.



- 61 -
Annex III                                                                Annex III
Page 3 of 7                                                           Page 3 of 7
To meet the principal demands of the technology professor profile -
- theoretical, technological and pedagogic skills, as well as exposure to the
industrial environment -- their training will take place in four phases:
-     general and technological training
-     pedagogic, including practical, training
-     internship in industry
-     gradual insertion into the school environment, and preparation for
taking up teaching duties.
II-1 GENERAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL TRAINING
The general and technological training of ISET professors, based on
"bac + 4" (master's degree), will take place mostly in Tunisia and will last 32
weeks, or 960 hours. The programs need to be very close in spirit to those
designed for students preparing for the recently introduced agr6gation (State
licensing) examination. They should meet the following objectives:
-     consolidation of the basic theoretical and practical knowledge
acquired as part of the master's degree course;
-     greater exposure to technological disciplines, with intensive
training in industrial practices;
-     assumption of responsibilities and self-training, with trainees
placed in charge of specific projects using techniques learned:
setting up of practical work assignments, course preparation, and
lesson delivery.
This training will be partially or fully subcontracted to Tunisian
and foreign training institutions. It will be designed, organized, and
monitored by a small unit based at the Institut de Preparation aux Etudes
Scientifiques et Techniques (IPEST) at La Marsa, which currently offers
agrdgatlon preparatory courses in math and physics. This monitoring unit will
comprise a coordinator, assisted by a secretariat, coming under the supervision
of the IPEST Director. This coordinator will be responsible for monitoring
implementation of the various study plans. To do this, he or she will need to:
-     select tht. units responsible for implementation of each study plan
(choice of institutions, teachers, supervisory staff);
-     coordinate all courses through the supervisory staff;
-     ensure that the trainers keep abreast of the latest technological
information.



- 62 -
Annex III                                                               Annex III
Page 4 of 7                                                           Page 4 of 7
The teachers providing this training will either be employed on a
contractual basis or as freelancers, or be seconded from other institutions for
a limited period of time.
In view of the number of teachers to be trained, and of the number
of trainers in the various designated specialties available in the country, the
training programs may be subdivided into three categories:
-     training courses fully subcontracted to local institutions
-     training courses partially subcontracted to local institutions
-     training courses subcontracted to foreign institutions.
Estimated student inflows should be slightly higher than the out-
flow requirements. However, the selection that will take place upon entry, and
the intensity of the training provided, sh.uAld ensure a very high output, with
a failure rate not exceeding 10% despite the quality requirement based on
international criteria.
A. Training fully subcontracted to local institutions
This training will be provided by Tunisian higher education estab-
lishments under the direct supervision of the unit monitoring the training of
ISET professors. Criteria will be established by which to select the best
institution for each of the disciplines. These disciplines are those for which
fewer than ten professors in the new branch are needed annually, and which are
relatively well developed in Tunisia: English, French, mathematics, law,
chemistry, and civil and mining engineering. This should mean an overall
student intake on the order of 300 units over five years (assuming a failure
rate of around 10%).
Based on a training cost of D 50 an hour (i.e. less than half the
actual cost of one hour of training provided by a university professor) for a
10-person group, we obtain the following estimate for five years:
300/10 x 960 x 50 - D 1,440,000
B. flaininz partiaP.v subcontracted to local institutions
This training involves certain disciplines ranking relatively high
on the ISET list, for which at least 20 ISET professors are to be trained each
year: mechanical engineering, electrical and electronic engineering, and
management. The basic theory courses and most of the practical work will take
place at the IPEST premises at La Marsa, and the rest of the practical work
will be subcontracted to higher education establishments in the technology
field (ENIT, ENSET, ISET de TUNIS, etc.) or management field (IHEC, ISGC, etc.)
Thanks to this formula, standardized training will be provided by Tunisian
sources while the need for construction and infrastructure will remain minimal.



- 63 -
Annex III                                                               Annex III
Page 5 of 7                                                           Page 5 of 7
To ensure that this training program is in place by the start of
the 1992-93 academic year, the budget for the ISET professor training unit will
need to include:
-     adaptation of certain premises to meet the needs of trainers and
supervisors (remodeling of certain classrooms and practical work
rooms, facilities for individual studies or for small groups
working on projects, and so forth): D 500,000.
-     simple data processing equipment for teachers and students,
specific equipment not available elsewhere, library and documents,
and teaching aids for the preparation of an active pedagogic
program:   D 1,500,000.
Thus a total of D 2,000,000 will be needed for the five-year period.
Foreign trainers:  At least six international experts, specializing
in the principal disciplines (mechanical engineering, electro-
technology, electronics, and management), with confirmed experience
in higher technological education, to be recruited for the first
five years of the program. They will be required to:
-     serve as the "driving force" for each discipline concerned;
-     provide guidelines for training and establish monitoring
procedures;
-     streamline the programs put in place to match the objectives
and needs of the labor market;
-     prepare for their own gradual replacement by specially
selected Tunisian teachers.
They will be assisted in this function by Tunisian professors,
graduates of various higher education establishments, who have been
recruited specifically for these various training programs. Based
on an overall annual cost of D 100,000 per expert, the overall
budget for this essential external aid may be estimated at: D
100,000 x 6 x 5 - D 3,000,000.
-     Lastly, almost 501 of the training will be subcontracted to
Tunisian technical or management training establishments, at an
overall cost of D 960,000 over five years (400 students/10 x 960/2
x D 50/hour).
Thus, the total investment in actual training comes to D 3,960,000 over
the five-year period.



- 64 -
Annex III                                                                Annex III
Page 6 of 7                                                           Page 6 of 7
C.  Training subontr_a_t0abro_ad
This training will be given in areas that are not yet well
developed in Tunisia because they are relatively new: marketing,
administration and office technology, internal and external business
communication, modern documentation and information systems, and so forth.
The total number of professors to be trained in all of the
specialties, over five years, is estimated at around 70, i.e. a student intake
on the order of 80. Putting the individual marginal cost of training at
D 5,000, and the individual subsistence and tranqportation cost at D 10,000, we
arrive at an overall cost of D 15,000 x 80 - D 1,200,000.
D. Scholarships for students in Tunisia
Taking into account both recruitment at "bac + 6" and the failure
rate, the number of scholarship holders for this training phase is
approximately 600, giving a total of 600 x D 150/month x 12 months - D
1,080,000.
E.  Summary of general and techno'ogical training costs over 5 years
training fully subcontracted in Tunisia           D 1,440,000
-     training partially subcontracted in Tunisia         5,960,000
-     trainirng subcontracted abroad                       1,200,000
-     scholarships for students in Tunisia                 1,080,000
-     coordination (admin. and secretariat costs)            120.000
TOTAL                                             D 9,800,000
11-2  PEDAGOGIC TRAINING ABROAD
This training will take place after completion of the general and
technological training, either in Europe (at a French IUT or other similar
institution in Belgium, Germdny or the United Kingdom), or at CEGEP in Quebec.
The training period is three months, during which the teacher trainee will
participate in the gereral training and applied research program offered in the
department relevent to his profile. He will participate in classes, seminars
and practical work. He will also provide assistance during the back-to-school
process and at examination time.
Some 600 tra'nees will benefit from this pedagogic training. The
cost of the progre.m comprises the cost of the trainees' travel from Tunis to
the location selected, the scholarship amount, and all training-related costs



- 65 -
Annex III                                                               Annex III
Page 7 of 7                                                           Page 7 of 7
to be paid to the host institution, for an estimated total cost of D 4,860,000
over five years (8,100 x 600 trainees).
11-3 INTERNSHIPS IN ENTERPRISES
These internships will be offered by Tunisian companies. They are
intended for future ISET professors with no practical business experience.
Their average duration will be three months, and they will benefit almost 520
trainees.
Assuming an average scholarship of D 300 per month, the overall
cost of this internship program will be D 468,000 over five years (520 interns
x D 300 x 3 months).
II-4 INDUCTION TO TEACHING DUTIES
Care must be taken to make use of the few months between the
official end of the training period and the start of the school year to prepare
the teachers to take up their duties at the ISET to which they are assigned:
integration into the teaching team, preparation of classes, and in particular
of practical work, participation in end-of-year juries and admissions panels,
intern visits, contacts with industry. This will involve 660 teachers over
five years, for a period of about three months (including the summer
vacations), at a cost of 660 x 300 x 3 - D 594,000.
II-5 TOTAL 5-YEAR TRAINING BUDGET FOR ISETS TEACHING STAFF
-     general/technological training              D 9,800,000
-     teacher training                              4,860,000
-     industrial internships                          468,000
-     induction to teaching duties                    594.000
GRAND TOTAL                                D 15,722,000



- 66 -
ANNEX IV                                                                  ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4                                                           Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
National University Improvement Program
1.    This annex gives details of the sub-project categories identified during
project preparation and listed in the PNRU Procedural Manual, as well as the
criteria and operational indicators against which evaluation and selection of
the sub-projects will be made by the CRU.
2.    The eligible categories for sub-projects are as described below:
a)    Improvements in tba study programs for the first cycle.
(i)   The introduction of revised courses and programs to allow the
majority of students to acquire a sound basic knowledge and
understnding so that they are better prepared for their
subsequent studies.
(ii) To improve the pass rate.
b)    The introduction of new options in the second cycle.
(i)   Broaden the options available in the cycle of studies so that
students can enroll in programs that enable them to develop their
aptitudes.
(ii) Enable students to enroll in one of a selection of options which
result in a qualification which will lead to employment or further
study (third cycle).
(iii) Improve pass rates by introducing different modes of study that
take account of part-time student availability.
c)    Improvements in the programs for engineers and teachers.
(i)   Improve programs that are designed to produce high quality
engineers, teachers and scientific researchers by the design and
implementation of study programs that will prepare students for
the entrance exams to specialist engineering, secondary teacher
training institutions and magIstbre.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV                                                                  ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4                                                           Page 2 of 4
d)    Introduction of computing and related skills.
Design and implement programs to introduce appropriate, effective
computing and related skills throughout the higher education system so
that graduates will be able to work effectively in applying this
knowledge to their discipline.
e)    Upgrade library and related facilities.
(i)   Improve the size of the book stock and journal provision.
(ii) Computerize record keeping to facilitate consultation and use of
the system.
f)    Training secondary school teachers.
Introduce programs to train graduates in those disciplines of the
secondary curriculum where there is a trained teacher shortage.
g)    Training higher education academic staff.
Introduce changes in postgraduate (graduate) study programs,
especially through the introduction of new options in applied
disciplines.
Sub-groject selection criteria
3.    The Committee for University Improvement (CRU) is responsible, inter
alia, for setting and, as necessary, revising the criteria and operational
indicators for sub-project selection. These criteria focus essentially on the
conformity of the sub-project with the objectives of the higher education
reform program and the implementation capacity of the university proposing the
sub-project. Use of such criteria will ensure an objective assessment of the
sub-project proposals submitted.
4.    Each sub-project submitted will be examined by the CNRU in light of the
criteria and operational indicators.
CRITERION I - CONSISTENCY WITH OBJECTIVES
5.          This criterion is subdivided into three subcriteria, as follows:
A.    Improvement in the quality of education and training: Evaluation
of this aspect will be based on the following operational indicators:



- 68 -
ANNEX IV                                                                  ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4                                                            Page 3 of 4
(1)   Review of program subject matter and delivery, taking account of
knowledge in the disciplines.
(2)   Efficiency of the proposed new teaching methods.
(3)   Projected effectiveness in reducing failure rates.
(4)   Increasing course-related exercises (travaux dlr1g6s] and
practical work [travaux pratlques].
(5)   Reduction of average time taken to complete course; reduce the
average time taken to qualify by reducing the number of years and
increasing the pass rate.
(6)   Production of scientific work supporting to changes in the
teaching program.
(7)   Improvement in teaching and learning methods.
(8)   Other indicators that can be identified by the authors of the sub-
project.
B.    ImDrovement in Matching Training to Labor Market Requirements:
Evaluation of this aspect will be based on the following
operational indicators:
(1)   The capacity of the sub-project to meet regional or local
management training requirements in the public and private
sectors.
(2)   Prospects for adapting the training provided in the sub-project to
other types of needs such as short courses for retraining
employees.
(3)   Intended links with the world of work and ways of developing them
through the sub-project.
(4)   Capacity to incorporate the positive relevant aspects of other
countries' experiences into the proposed training program.
(5)   Other more specific indicators put forward in the sub-project
proposals.
C.    Better Use of Available Resources:  This subcriterion will be
based on the following operational indicators:
(1)   Reduction in unit cost of the training per qualified graduate
proposed by the sub-project.
(2)   Reduction of overlap by making specialized facilities available
for use by several programs.
(3)   The rescheduling of programs and combining of courses in similar
cycles of study which are currently offered by different
university institutions and at different times and places.
(4)   Improving the efficiency of existing services and facilities
(computer centers, libraries etc.) by increasing the level of
provision and access.
(5)   Shared access to data bases, specialized equipment and
documentation sources.
(6)   Reduction of equipment down time.



- 69 -
ANNEX IV                                                                  ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4                                                            Page 4 of 4
(7)   Improvements in maintenance of equipment and other facilities.
(8)   Other more specific indicators suggested by the authors of the
sub-project.
CRITERION II - CAPACITY TO CARRY OUT THE SUB-PROJECT
This criterion has to do with achieving the most rational and
efficient use of available resources, based on the following operational
indicators:
(1)   Use of existing buildings, laboratories, workshops, etc., and
appropriate infrastructure (water, gas, electricity, heating and
air conditioning, sewerage, etc.) without resorting to major new
construction programs.
(2)   Availability or the introduction of a training and recruitment
program for qualified personnel at teacher, technical or
specialized staff levels already in existence.
(3)   Capacity of staff to prepare a given sub-project and capacity to
undertake the studies and prepare the specifications needed for
its implementation.
(4)   EstImated capacity to generate new resources through the proposed
sub-project.
(5)   Availability, for the life of the sub-project, of an operating
budget sufficient for the efficient use of staff and facilities,
and, in particular, a budget for consumables related to the sub-
project.
(6)   Existence of an appropriate maintenance service or of a
maintenance contract; or a training program for maintenance
personnel for the equipment requested in the sub-project.
(7)   Other more specific indicators suggested by the sub-project
authors.



- 70 -
ANNEX V                                                                    ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5                                                           Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
Institutional Strengthening Component
A.          PRESENTATION OF THE SAGES SYSTEM
1.          The Normative Resource Allocation System (Systeme d'Analyse et de
Gestion de l'Enseignement Superieur - SAGES) is designed to:
-     provide indicators regarding the resources (teachers, support
staff, facilities, and operating budgets) made available to the
higher education establishments, and the activities (teaching
load, research) and performance (internal and external yields) of
these establishments;
f
-     contribute to the setting of standards regarding the utilization
of human and physical resources employed (teacher-student ratio,
space per student, occupation rate of facilities, etc.);
-     facilitate resource allocation among establishments, sectors
within education, regions and, more generally, implementation of
the Government's policy on training and higher education;
-     provide the establishments and the central administration with an
analytic management tool that will enable them to align the nature
and the volume of expenditures on real needs.
I. Establishment of the Higher Education Data Bank (Banque de
Donnees de l'Enseignement Superieur - BADES)
2.          This first phase consists of designing and setting up a higher
education data bank combining the records for facilities, training offered,
administrative personnel, equipment, operating costs and students. This stage
is already under way and will be completed by the end of 1992, after the
equipment survey.
II. Budget Management System
3.          First, key indicators must be selected to form -- at the central
administration level -- a management chart that will guide budget preparation
and, more generally, facilitate study of the feasibility of any decision
likely to impact the human and financial resources or the establishment's
activity. On the basis of the averages observed, the setups of national
diplomas and, by reference to international standards, resource-use standards



- 71 -
ANNEX V                                                                    ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5                                                           Page 2 of 5
will be adopted with a view to justifying and classifying the establishments'
demands. The last phase will comprise the setting up of a model bank designed
to provide, by means of projections, resource-allocation simulations and
algorithms that will help in budget decisionmaking. This stage will be
carried out in 1993.
III. Cost accounting
4.          A cost-accounting system will be introduced in the main
establishments (10 in number) that will be commitment-based and will describe
expenditures by purpose and not by nature. This system will be supported by
software to be procured and can be gradually brought into general use. It
will make it possible to determine to the greatest extent possible the real
cost of education and to limit waste. This stage will be carried out in 1993
in conjunction with the implementation of the budget management assistance
system.
B.          MANAGEMENT OF PROGRESS AND MONITORING OF STUDENTS
5.          MES plans to implement an integrated student progress and
monitoring system. This project aims at setting up a national model of
decentralized progress management that will lead to greater efficiency in
resource use, student monitoring and guidance, organization of examinations
and evaluation, and the administrative services offered to users. Similarly,
and in the context of the establishment of a higher education data bank
(BADES), MES intends to set up a central student record system and institute a
procedure for the circulation and processing of data relating to the three
levels: establishments, universities and central administration. This system
will make it possible to:
-     standardize and improve progress management at the establishment
level;
-     ensure, at the university and central administration levels,
individualized monitoring of students for statistical, study and
management purposes.
6.          At the establishment and university levels, this system will
consist in:
(a)   Progress management: The aim is to design and bring into use
standard software that will be adaptable to the specific requirements of the
different establishments and of the diversity of t 'ri-U g courses offered.  It
will have to include the following models:  enroli  -ts;  iversight of student
progress and effort; and examination management.
(b)   Student monitoring: Data on students (identification, geographic
origin, socio-professional background of parents, etc.), courses
taken and progress (detailed study program, results, etc.), and
university benefits received (scholarship, loan, housing) will be



- 72 -
ANNEX V                                                                    ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5                                                           Page 3 of 5
combined in one "student record." The purpose will be, on the one
hand, to gather these data for the central student records system
and, on the other, to enable the establishment to track the
students from a pedagogic and administrative standpoint.
(c)   Course programming: The aim will be to provide the establishments
with a computerized management tool enabling them to:
-     coordinate assignment of students and teaching staff;
-     generate and update course ane examination time use, taking room
and staff availability into account;
-     have on hand indicators concerning room use, assignments
performed, utilization of teaching staff, etc.
7.          At the MES level, the data provided by the establishments
(enrollments, examination results, etc.) will be centralized to set up a
central student records system. This student data base will be one of the
components of the higher education data bank (BADES) included in the
ministry's data masterplan. This data base will be used:
-     for statistical purposes:
*     publication of statistics on the establishments and students
*     forecasting for management and planning purposes
*     miscellaneous statistical studies
-     for study purposes:
*     sociological studies (of student courses by region, parents'
socioprofessional status, etc.)
*     economic studies (performance of education system, cost of
education, university benefits and services, etc.)
*     miscellaneous studies
for management purposes:
*     monitoring of initial and later guidance
*     control of multiple enrollments
*     granting of scholarships abroad and monitoring of students
studying abroad.
8.          Implementation of the above-described system will require:
a prior study listing the management systems, both manual and
computerized, presently in use in the higher education
establishments. In light of its findings, this study will also
need to propose organizational and data-processing solutions and
evaluate the methods to be employed.



- 73 -
ANNEX V                                                                    ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5                                                           Page 4 of 5
design and development of the followirng applications:
-     standard progress management and student monitoring software
for the universities;
-     software to help with course programming;
-     a student data base and related applications for the
universities and the central administration.
implementation of the system, comprising:
-     a real test at pilot sites;
-     procurement and installation of the necessary equipment and
software for the establishments and universities;
-     user training;
-     general introduction of the system and implementation of the
central data base.
C.          TRAINING PROGRAM FOR HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGERS
9.          Tunisian higher education is lacking in senior-level managers:  for
the current 140 establishments (half of which are teaching establishments),
there are only 160 senior managers where there ought to be at least 350.
Moreover, the majority of those presently holding such positions (129) were
drawn from the teaching staff and have not received any specific training for
managing university establishments. The program proposes establishment of a
training cycle for management staff specific to the university establishments
and intended for managers to be newly recruited, plus retraining the present
incumbents (the secretaries general of the teaching establishments and the
directors of the university dormitories and cafeterias), who are about 150 in
number.
10.         In order to determine the precise training needs, program contents
and teaching methods to be used, the project will finance a prior two-man-month
study in the course of 1992.
I. Basic training
11.         The object will be to train 200 managers in the university
institutions (teaching establishments, research institutes, vice-
chancellorships and university services institutions). The intention, to begin
with, is to train five classes of 40 students each over the period 1992-98.
This basic training would be open to candidates accepted on the basis of
examinations from among holders of master's degrees or equivalent
qualifications. Those who successfully complete this training cycle would be
given the qualification of administrator-counselor.
12.         Program of studies: This training could be run at the Tunis ENA,
with the instruction being given by university teaching staff, senior
government officials and foreign specialists, especially for specific
instruction in running university establishments. The duration of the studies
will be two years, i.e. 22 months of theory and practical training. The
classes will be made up of two groups of 20 students each. The course year
would consist of 40 wec!.z with 28 hours' instruction per week. Each student



- 74 -
ANNEX V                                                                    ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5                                                            Page 5 of 5
would have two periods of , 3etical training: An initial period of one month
in Tunisia during the first year, and a one-month training course abroad in the
second year.
13.         The programs would comprise:
-     refresher courses in accounting, management and law, in accordance
with the different candidates' profiles;
-     basic and general training courses in computer use, economics,
public and private law, management audit, psychosociology, etc.;
-     courses in educational institution management techniques:  student
progress management, library management, pedagogic programs,
education forecasts and planning, and analysis of education
projects.
II. Refresher training
14.         This cycle is intended for advanced aad refresher training of about
160 of the managers currently holding positions in university establishments,
in groups of 40 managers over the period 1992-96. It could be conducted in
three periods organized during vacations:
-     Two blocked weeks of 30 hours' training devoted to management of
teaching staff and administrative and technical personnel and
labor, plus financial management;
-     One week's training abroad devoted to student management;
-     One week devoted to equipment management.



ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD                          GOVERNMENT                   TOTAL
BANK CALENDAR                                        REGIONAL
FY      YEAR SEMESTER  PONCTUAL CUMULATIVE   PROFILE    PONCTUAL CUMULAT'VE                 PONCTUAL CUMULATIVE
1992 FIRST                                     0.0          3.2           3.2            3.2           3.'
FY93             SECOND            1.8           1.8       2.3          3.2           6.4            5.0           8.2
1993 FIRST             3.9           5.7       4.5          2.9           9.3            6.8          15.0
FY94             SECOND            b.3          12.0       7.5          3.3           12.6           9.6          24.6
1994 FIRST             6.0          18.0      13.5          4.7           17.3           10.7         35.3
FY95             SECOND            6.3          24.3      22.5          4.8          22.1            11.1         46.4
1995 FRRST             9.2          33.5      28.5          6.6          28.7            15.8         62.2
FY96             SE:COND           9.7          43.2      34.5          6.7          35.5            16.4         78.7
1996 FIRST             9.7          52.9      43.5          5.1          40.6            14.8         93.5
FY97             SECOND            8.4          61.3      49.5          4.9          45.6           13.3         106.9
1997 FIRST             5.8          67.1      58.5          2.5          48.1            8.3         115.2
FY98             SECOND            5.0          72.0      64.5          2.4          50.5            r.4         122.5
1998 FIRST             2.0          74.0      70.5          0.4          50.9            2.4         124.9
FY99             SECOND            1.0          75.0      72.0          0.3          51.2             1.3        126.2
1999 FIRST                                    73.5
FY2000             SECOND                                   75.0
:>1
I-



- 76 -
ANNEX VII                                                                ANNEX VII
BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN FILES
1.    Ministere de l'Education et des Sciences, Service des Statistiques,
1991-1991, "L'Enseignement et la Formation Superieurs en Chi.fres"
2.    Professeur Sadok Belaid, Ministere de l'Education et des Sciences, 1990,
"Propositions pour une Reforme de 1'Enseignement Sup6rieur: Rapport
Pr6liminaire"
3.    SIDES Ingenierie Comete Engineering, Cabinet de Prospective Sociale,
Universite Tunisienne, 1990, "Le Vecu et les Attitudes"
4.    Ministere de 1'Education et des Sciences, 1991, "Creation d'Instituts
Superieurs Technologiques", Projet de Restructuration de l'Enseignement
Superieur
5.    Societ6 d'Assistance en Management, d'Engineering et de Formation, 1991,
"Etude Relative a la Formation des Enseignants Technologues des I.U.T.",
Volumes 1 - 4
6.    Comete Engineering 1991: Creation d'Instituts Superieurs Technologiques
7.    Ministere de 1'Education et des Sciences, 1991, "P::ojet de
Restructuration de 1'Enseignement Sup6rieur"
8.    Minist&re de l'Education et des Sciences, 1991, "Renovation
Universitaire - Sous Projet: P6le Scientifique e: Technique
d' Excellence"
9.    Ministere de l'Education et des Sciences, 1991, "Programme National de
Renovation Universitaire - Manuels de Procedures"
10.   Ministere de 1'Education et des Sciences, 1990, "Rapport de la Sous-
Commission Sectorielle de l'Enseignement Superieur - Bilan des trois
Premieres Ann6es du VIIe Plan en Matiere d'Enseignement Superieur"
11.   Ministere du PlTn et des Finances, 1989, "Situation Actuelle et
Perspectives de Developpement de 1'Enseignement Sup6rieur"
12.   Ministere de l'Education et des Sciences, 1989, "Enseignement Superieur:
Developpements Recents dans l'Evolution des Effectifs, Difficult6s
inhdrentes et Perspectives"
13.   Institut d'Economie Quantitative, 1989, "Etude sur l'Enseignement et la
Formation des Techniciens"
14.   William Experton, 1988, "L'En:eignement Superieur en Tunisie - Working
Paper"
15.   Enqufte Emploi, 1989, Institut National de la Statistique.



