Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24214
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-29506; CPL-34560; SCL-3456A; SCPM-3456S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 75.0 US$ MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
05/31/02
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND 1.00 = US$ 0.68
US$ 1.00 = TND 1.47
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIRUNI        Bibliotheques pour la renovation universitaire
(University Libraries' Information Technology Network)
CAO           Chief Administration Officer (secretaire general)
CoF           Cofinancing
CNE           Commission nationale d'evaluation (National Evaluation Commnission)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International competitive bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report.
ISET          Institut sup6rieur d'etudes technologiques (Higher Institutes of Technology)
MHE           Ministry of Higher Education
NCB           National competitive bidding
NFB           (Item) not financed by the World Bank
PNRU          Programme national de renovation universitaire
(National University Renewal Program)
SAGES         Systeme d'analyse et de gestion de l'enseignement superieur
(Higher Education Analysis and Management System)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager:   Regina Bendokat
Task Team Leader:    Jeffrey Waite
Report Author:   Francis Steier



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
Eigher Education Restructuring Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                4
6. Sustainability                                                                    6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   8
9. Partner Comments                                                                  9
10. Additional Information                                                          9
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                10
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                15
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   16
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               17
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                          18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005726                                     Project Name: Higher Education Restructuring
Project
Team Leader: Jeffrey Waite                              TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: May 31, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Higher Education Restructuring Project       L/C/TF Number: TF-29506;
CPL-34560;
SCL-3456A;
SCPM-3456S
Country/Department: TUNISIA                                           Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 02/27/1990                              Effective:                   02/12/1993
Appraisal:  07/25/1990                              MTR:                      10/01/1996
Approval: 03/31/1992                             Closing: 12/31/1998          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF TUNISIA/MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                       Pieter P. Bottelier
Sector Manager:     Jacques Baudouy                          Andrew P. Rogerson
Team Leader at ICR:  Jeffrey Waite                           William Experton
ICR Primary Author:  Francis Steier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) gave the project's general objective as making the higher education system
more responsive to the country's needs, and improving its performance in both economic terms (cost
effectiveness) and in human terns (ratio of number of graduates to number of entering freshmen). In
particular, the project was to:
i)     Diversify the higher education system through the creation of higher institutes of technology
(Instituts superieurs d'etudes technologiques, ISETs), in order to improve the output of a well
trained technical and managerial labor force;
ii)    Provide incentives to encourage universities to reexamine and review their curricula, with a view
to strengthening the quality of education and academic attainment-in particular through
reinforcement of practical work, greater student participation, and learning through experience,
increasing the relevance of teacher training programs, improving the system's internal and
external efficiency and reducing the average length of study; and
iii)  Improve resource distribution and use according to set strategies, by creating a new normative
system of budgetary allocation and the development of a new management system adapted to the
needs of more autonomous institutions of higher education.
This objective was consistent with the country strategy, and it was both realistic and ambitious: realistic in
that it was based on identified needs within the country and on methods that had proven to be effective
elsewhere; ambitious because it introduced important changes in higher education policy and management, as
well as in the traditional university culture. It was particularly realistic with respect to the ISETs and
curriculum reform, and ambitious with respect to the competitive fund for innovation (Programme national
de renovation universitaire, PNRU). Although the project was centrally managed by the Ministry of Higher
Education (MHlE), it was complex because it involved an important number of institutions: 7 ISETs, plus (by
the end of the project) more than 20 university departments implementing PNRU sub-projects, plus other
units implementing management reforms.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None.
3.3 Original Components:
In order to achieve its objective the project had three components:
Component A: Creation of a new generation of institutions of higher education, known as ISETs.
Component B: Setting up the competitive fund for innovation (PNRU), targeted at allocating resources to
universities through a competitive process, in order to improve (i) the internal and external efficiency of
teaching programs, (ii) teaching quality and (iii) learning outcomes.
Component C: Strengthening higher education planning and administrative capabilities.
3.4 Revised Components:
No changes were made to component design. Following the surplus that resulted from exchange rate
variations, the construction of two new ISETs were added to Component A, and several subprojects added to
Component B (PNRU). In addition, during the project's mid-term review (Fall 1996) -- as was the practice
for all projects appraised before 1995 -- the Bank and MHE project teams defined a battery of impact and
performance indicators (Annex 1) that had not been included in the Staff Appraisal Report.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project preparation and design were judged satisfactory overall, in spite of an effectiveness delay due in
part to an underestimation of some political opposition to project reforms. Project preparation did benefit
from an in-depth sector study and from the dialogue on quality initiated between IBRD and the Borrower, and
project design was consistent with Government priorities
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project met its goals. Two of the three components (A: ISET; and.C: Support for MHE
Management) in particular achieved their direct objectives, which, moreover, resulted in substantial indirect
effects. Ratings for objectives are given in Annex 5.
A. The creation of the ISET system has diversified Tunisian higher education, and now allows for the
production of middle-level technicians and managers for the labor force. Moreover, the very nature of the
ISETs (training of senior technicians, ties to the economic environment, status of specialist teaching staff,
greater autonomy in institutional management) has not only made them more responsive to the country's
economic needs, but has also served as a model for an in-depth reform of the entire higher education system.
B. As a direct outcome of the PNRU activities and the indirect example of the ISETs, most universities have
now "reviewed their curricula with a view to strengthening the quality of education and academic
attainment." In addition, the MHE is now fully involved in the accreditation of all new university programs.
However, although all PNRU projects met the criteria set out in the SAR, fully one third'of PNRU projects
were submitted by the MHE itself (and not by universities as initially planned). It is clear that a culture of
promoting performance through competition for additional resources has not yet been developed.
C. Resource distribution and use appear to have improved, although it remains unclear whether this
improvement can be attributed solely to the project. The MHE developed its higher education management
information system (Systeme d 'analyse et de gestion de 1 'enseignement superieur, SAGES) -- key to the
rationalization process -- but has not yet started to use it fully. Despite this, the managerial training that came
out of the development of SAGES has doubtless had a positive impact.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall the project design was successful in achieving its objectives. The project succeeded in achieving the
following, by component:
Component A: Higher Institutes of Technology (ISETs)
Both the quantitative and qualitative objectives of this component were achieved, and the quantitative
objectives even surpassed: number of institutes, programs, teachers and students, as well as the impact of the
ISETs on the entire university system and on the Tunisian economy.
With respect to the quantifiable achievements:
i) The seven ISETs funded by the loan -- five of them fully financed and the other two, only in relation to
teacher training -- are now in their sixth year (or 11th term, if we account for the fact that one of the
system's innovations is the five-semester program length, making for two sessions per year, in September
and February). Two additional ISETs were added to the project, although preparation delays in the last
ISET (at Jendouba) meant that it was transferred to the following project (P005741). The MIHE has
managed to create a new and highly innovative model institution; the MHE has now gone beyond the
-3-



project, since it now has a total of twelve ISETs, and has plans for thirteen more as part of its Tenth Plan
(see below).
ii) Some 17,000 students are enrolled in the ISETs, for 8% of total enrollments, with demand for the ISETs
far exceeding their capacity, and more than 80% of graduates have found work within six months after
leaving the institute.
iii) The new teaching staff is in place, with 600 young teachers who have come out of the new training
courses. Four hundred teachers have passed their competitive exams; these young teachers are motivated,
and their respective industries are starting to take notice (e.g. by organizing work-based intemships).
Component B: PNRU
Twenty-one subprojects were financed by the PNRU, representing a total investment of US$14.7 million.
The truly innovative projects (e.g. PhD in environmental sciences, PhD in European Community law, and the
BIRUNI university libraries' information technology project) need to be distinguished from those that arose to
support reforms already in progress, through the purchase of equipment (e.g. the engineering studies reform).
Generally speaking, the quality of the PNRU project achievements remains very uneven, and the concept of a
competition for project financing has not taken hold. A more in-depth study will be needed to determine how
applicable this competitive approach is to higher education in Tunisia.
Component C: Management
The achievements of the three subcomponents can be summarized as follows:
i) SAGES: The system is in place, and its five component files have been tested at a few individual
universities (see section 4.1 (iii)).
ii) CNE: The National Assessment Board (Comite national d'evaluation, CNE) is in place, and its work
plan includes self-assessment and outside evaluation of the institutes.
iii) Managerial Training. The training program for chief administration officers (secretaires generaux) and
other managerial staff is in place; it is of very high quality and highly competitive at the admissions level,
resulting in about thirty diplomas per year.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No rate of return analysis was undertaken.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No rate of return analysis was undertaken.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The contribution of the project to building institutional capacity was substantial, particular in developing
competencies in project implementation and management within the ISET department, which now handles a
large program to expand the ISET network.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As stated above, exchange rate variations during the early years of the project slowed the rate of
disbursements, and later created a surplus that made it possible to build two additional ISETs.
-4 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The first of these factors had to do with the conditions of effectiveness of the project. The delay in achieving
the four conditions', particularly publication of the law defining the ISETs' legal status in the Official Gazette,
meant that the project got off to a late start. In fact, the Bank miscalculated the political implications
engendered by the change, as well as the need for ample information and consultation before it was submitted
to Parliament, and this resulted in a one-year delay before project effectiveness: the project was approved by
the Bank's Board of Executive Directors in March 1992 but became effective in February 1993.
The second factor had to do with ministerial priorities. Four Ministers of Higher Education2 oversaw the
fortunes of the project; All four supported the project's objectives and its underlying philosophy. However,
the interest they took in each of the components was uneven. There was considerable risk that rapid growth
of the ISET program would respond more to the massive influx of students in higher education and to the
geographical diversification of the training program than to the needs of the economy and the job market for
senior technicians. Successive follow-up missions have underscored the risks of overly rapid expansion that
could move the program off track.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the first few months of operation, the management capacity of the Project Management Unit was
limited because of delays in appointing not only key managers but also those responsible for day-to-day
operations. The head of the ISET component, for example, also served as the project coordinator for more
than a year.
The decision to implement the project through MHE's organizational units (whether already existing or
created by the project) had various results, depending on the political and financial weight of each component,
and the perception the different participants and managers had of their urgency and priority within the overall
strategy. Because of this, some components, such as the SAGES, were sometimes "put on the back burner",
and took longer to implement fully.
The availability and personal commitment of officials in charge of implementing each component was as
important a factor as the material and "bureaucratic" means placed at their disposal. The ISET component for
example benefited from the consistent attention of successive implementation teams. In contrast, the SAGES
program suffered the effects of very different circumstances during implementation. SAGES went through
what can be seen as three phases: an initial take-off phase, slowed down by limited involvement of the
director for financial affairs in the project at that time; a second phase in which all material means for the
project's success were made available, with the result that more was acheived than initially envisaged; and
finally, a third phase involving a major slowdown, during which the program's execution was criticized for its
"complexity."
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of the staff appraisal, the project's total cost was estimated at US$126.3 million: the IBRD
provided US$75 million (59.4% of the total) and the Government US$51.3 million (40.6%). Exchange rate
variations during the course of the project resulted in a surplus by the scheduled date of project closing
(December 1998). At the Tunisian Government's request, the project was extended in December 1998 for
one year, and then once again in 1999, so that this surplus could be used to build two new ISETs.
1 (i) Publication of the law defining the ISET's legal status in the Official Gazette; (ii) completion of the PNRU's Operations Manual;
(iii) establishment of the management units of the ISET and PNRU components; and (iv) MHE's appointment of a project coordinator
and managers to the above two units. The official in charge of component C was meant to be the director of the Financial Affairs
Division.
2 Two were Ministers of Education and of Higher Education; the other two held the Higher Education portfolio alone.
-5-



At closing, the total value of the loan was US$68.2 million equivalent: US$56.0 million disbursed, US$4.9
million cancelled, and US$7.3 million not disbursed. Delays imposed by the National Contracts Commission
(Commission sup&rieure des marches), as well as the complexity of the transactions between the Central Bank
and the Treasury, resulted in disbursement delays.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The overall "likely" rating, given in section 2, is justified as follows:
Component A: ISET The sustainability of this component has been established. In fact, starting with the
seven ISETs financed by the project and the additional ISET financed by the loan surplus, the Government
plans to fund a total of 23 ISETs -- one for each Governorate -- twelve of these under the Ninth Plan and
thirteen under the Tenth Plan.
Component B: PNRU This component will not be extended by MHE. In order to provide academics with
true incentives to submit new projects for programs, the PNRU Operations Manual needs to be retooled,
preferably in a context that provides more flexibility for the career growth of faculty members. To the best of
the Bank team's knowledge, MIHE has no plans to undertake a thorough examination of the conditions that
would be needed for the successful implementation of a competitive fund. Although the PNRU fund is not
sustainable as a mechanism to finance innovations, it did finance a number of subprojects that are themselves
sustainable.
Component C: Support for MHE 's Management The sustainability the three subcomponents can be
described as follows:
i) SAGES: Although the system is in place, it would seem that MME is making very little use of it at this
time. Nonetheless, a new impetus has just been added in the context of the second higher education
project (P005741). Its sustainability therefore remains uncertain.
ii) CNE: The CNE is in place and has been launched, and its sustainability appears to be assured.
iii) Managerial Training: This appears to be an excellent program whose sustainability is evident.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project activities, particularly civil works, are integrated into the MIHE's normal program, so that no special
transition arrangements are required. They will continue on an on-going basis, financed either out of the State
budget or from funds provided by new external loans or grants. As for implementation processes, no
particular transition arrangements are required, since project implementation was not undertaken by a stand-
alone project management unit but rather by the M'E's core units under the guidance of a project
coordination team.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation by the IBRD was judged to be satisfactory. With all its components and subcomponents,
the project represented a quasi-revolutionary effort for Tunisia. The Bank's first sector mission on higher
education took place in January 1988, and the preparation process provided for an in-depth examination of the
sector's main problems, as well as multiple dialogues with its main stakeholders. Throughout project
preparation, the two teams-IBRD and MHE-worked in close collaboration. In addition, representatives
from MEHE made fact-finding tours to France and Canada, essentially to study the models for short-term
technical education in those countries.
-6 -



Based on their observations, the project preparation teams created a Tunisian model for short-term technical
higher education characterized by several strong features:
i) ISETs, institutions granted a measure of autonomy, implementing national programs with room provided
for local adaptation, having a curriculum structured over five semesters (allowing for two admissions and
two graduations per year) and a unique internal organization providing for student follow-up, internships
and a real relationship with the professional environment;
ii) a new teaching staff, recruited according to very demanding quality criteria, that enjoys a unique status,
which, in principle, places value on pedagogy, student follow-up and real contact with the business
community (internships, tutorials, continuing education, technology transfer); and
iii) an original architecture adapted to the needs of the new institutions.
However, as mentioned in section 5.2 in respect of the law relating to ISET teacher status, the Bank
miscalculated the political implications engendered by the change, as well as the need for ample information
and consultation before it was submitted to Parliament, and thus contributed to the one-year delay in project
effectiveness.  -
The SAGES program, although inspired by the French GARACES model, was adapted to circumstances in
Tunisia. Preparation of the PNRU suffered from the fact that it was one of the Bank' s first experiences in the
area of competitive funding. More particularly, the operations manual was not adapted to the career path of
Tunisian teachers (civil servants with little incentive to seek additional financing for new programs). In
addition, inadequate attention was paid to providing information and marketing this new concept to MHE and
to academics-who always thought it was enough to request funds without submitting a project.
Furthermore, the funds set aside for the PNRU were incorporated in the departmental budgets, and as such,
they lost their attractiveness as resources intended to supplement normal allocations.
In accordance with the Bank's education projects prior to 1995, the Staff Appraisal Report did not include an
economic analysis.
7.2 Supervision:
Four task managers headed the IBRD teams during project supervision (first manager, 8 months; second, 7
years; third, 3 months; fourth, 1 year). The continuity of a single IBRD team throughout most of the project's
life is a positive factor worth highlighting. Project supervision was audited by the Bank's intemal Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) on two occasions (in 1999 and 2000), which applied a "satisfactory" rating on both
occasions. Also of note is the quality of the field trips at the time the ISETs were launched, which included
surveys of teachers and students, as well as interviews conducted with individuals and with small groups.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Given the performances noted above, the Bank's overall performance for preparation and supervision is rated
"satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The mission reports noted the excellent cooperation with the IBRD team in preparing the project. From the
outset, there was clear political support for the reforms being undertaken. The Tunisian project preparation
team, made up of both ME staff and respected members of academnia, was receptive to international
experiences, particularly those in France and Canada, and it used these well to come up with Tunisian
solutions.
7-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
There were some initial delays in the appointments of key project managers, but overall the Govermment's
performance is rated as satisfactory, particularly as the Government remained committed to the project's
overall objectives.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On the positive side, the implementation staff were particularly dedicated to the project. On the negative side,
there was uneven interest on the part of some heads of some components, and overly frequent administrative
changes occurred in component A (ISETs) in 1994/95 and in component C (SAGES) in 1993-95 and 2000/01.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated "satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
Positive Lessons
i) A project characterized by precise and realistic goals that clearly correspond to the Government's will to
reform the higher education system has greater chances of overall success.
ii) The success of individual components is largely due to the sustained commitment of the officials
entrusted with their implementation.
iii) The seriousness of analytical preparation and policy consultation work with the main stakeholders has a
very positive influence on project development and the achievement of a project's main goals.
iv) Partnership with business are more readily created when the relevant structures are specifically designed
for the purpose, even when the country has not had much overall experience of such partnerships.
v) The type of training offered by the ISETs meets a need of both public and private enterprise, and when
well thought out, is a factor in technological advancement.
vi) This type of training considerably improves the academic attainment of higher education (see the studies
from the MHE's ISET unit, which are very explicit on this point.)
vii) A curriculum leading to a professional qualification, once it is perceived as being rigorous, demanding
and likely to provide employment, will quickly attract students demanding quality training.
viii) A dedicated staff of teachers, structured according to a precise goal, is effective in attaining this goal.
ix) Instilling a culture of assessment requires strong political motivation.
x) The training of university administrators is a worthwhile investment.
Negative Lessons
i) Before undertaking a reform, it is prudent to calculate the political risks it will generate and foresee the
need for substantial infornation and consultation with the main stakeholders.
ii) Inasmuch as the competitive fund had positive results in numerous other countries, in terms of incentives
and effectiveness, it would be useful to do an in-depth study to find out the causes for its relative failure
in Tunisia.
iii) It is difficult for a Government to maintain the initial success of a reform. If the Government wishes to
maintain the success of the ISET reforn, it will be crucial that it invest in long-term gains rather than in
seeking short-term political benefits.
iv) It is extremely difficult to have faculty members reform their teaching and administrative methods, even
when these methods are shown to be ineffective, since the majority of teachers rely on the fact that
research is valued over teaching. The introduction of a new status for specialized teaching staff in ISETs
was met with opposition.
-8 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This report reflects the comments made by Tunisian officials in the course of earlier technical discussion. We
confirm our broad agreement with the report's conclusions with respect to project goals, outcomes,
implementation and sustainability.
In particular, we agree that the project made an important contribution to the restructuring of the higher
education sector in Tunisia at a time when the education system was in need of major improvements in
program diversity, teaching quality and reform management.
We would however wish to make the following specific comments:
1. Contrary to what is indicated in section 6(i) and in spite of delays, the higher education information
management system (SAGES) is sustainable; this is because, as noted in the text, "the new project [4297-
TUN] has breathed new life into this activity" in line with its implementation program.
2. The "positive" or "negative" nature of the lessons learned is in fact due to the project's success; the various
ministry officials are moreover acutely aware of these lessons.
3. The third of the "negative" lessons is not clear and needs to be further explained. If it refers to the
continued development of ISETs following their obvious success, this cannot be described as "taking political
advantage" but should rather be seen as part of an overall strategy aimed at meeting the diversification goal
that the Government set out in its 10th Five-Year Plan, whereby 30% of higher education students will be
enrolled in two-year programs in 2006; at present, two-year programs account for only 16.3% of all programs
and ISETs enrolled only 8.1% of all students in 2001/02.
Finally, the second higher education project (4297-TUN), it is true, is an extension of this first project. It has
enabled important activities to continue, such as the university libraries' IT network (BIRLTNI), the higher
education information management system (SAGES) and ISET development. The impact of Bank-Ministry
cooperation is thus best judged in the long term.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
No additional information.
-9-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Impact:Indicators      ......e....e           '  ."'  - Decemberil-
'._ !._ _.__ _,:__ _ _p_.:_E__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._!_ _1_ _          2 0 0 i "
Component A: ISETs
Internal efficiency
*  Number of graduates/number of students in     88.4%             88.3%
entering class (target > 80%
*  Number of students/number of permanent         14.7              14.2
faculty (target <16)
*  Average number of years to graduation        2.7 years         2.7 years
External efficiency
*  Share of ISET-generated resources as % of      3.8%             4.0%
MLHE-allocated ISET budget
*  Insertion rate of graduates as measured        83%               83%
through employer surveys
Component B: PNRU
For each new program developed as sub-          See tables       See tables
project:                                       attached to       attached to
*  Number of applicants                        Borrower's        Borrower's
*  Involvement of foreign academics as         contribution     contribution
members of teacher recrutement panels
*  Graduate insertion rate
*  Percentage of non-public funding
For each non-program sub-project:
*  Student use of sub-project output
Component C: Management and Planning
SAGES
*  SAGES s used systematically for resource   Not available     Not available
allocation to institutions
* Annual mismatch between teaching positions
and funding below 10% in each institution
CNE
* Awareness of the importance of evaluating
teaching quality
* Articles on the quality of teaching and
research
Trainingfor CAO (secretaries general)                             First self-
*Imnproved management in institutions, as                     evaluations in
reflected in self-evaluations                               evaluatios2002
-10-



Output Indicators    ,-.; ,December,, '.            December
Component A: ISETs
Students
*  September admissions                          3,800             5,300
*  February admissions                           1,080             1,450
*  Student enrollments at October 31             12,700           16,600
Teachers
*  Number of permanent teaching staff at
beginning of academic year                    864              1,163
*  Number of technical teaching staff             114              183
*  Number of senior teaching staff                110               1ll
*  Number of contract teaching staff              437              522
Industry links
*  Number of agreements signed over 12            11                27
months
*  Number of hours of internship over 12        120,000           195,000
months
*  Business income over 12 months             55,000 TN         95,000 TND
Component B : PNRU
*  Enrollment and attendance                   See tables        See tables
*  Admisisons per year                         attached to      attached to
*  Percentage of students completing program  Borrower's        Borrower's
to graduation                              contribution      contribution
Component C: Management and Planning
*  SAGES operational in institutions          Not available    Not available
*  CNE: self-evaluation in all institutions and
all programs
* CNE: external evaluation in large faculties
*  Management training: enrollments
*  Management training: graduates                 23                36
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ (1996/97)  (1999/2000)



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equlvalent)
,  |'I ..1  ;,.1  >  *  *  j r ' .'.;--*1!  ..' JD -1P F, , .  ''  b*i- '' ""  I. ]'A 'rail   Actual/Latest  Perce6ntage iof
i kz1&e! > v Illz;6trl; j ltwizl-lltl i t l piliTl  stiL,te |'' stin,te'  .,;Appraisal
rProject.Cost By.Component      m.i;,IWS$lmillidn'   .million
ISETs: Technical Institutes                         75.20         59.80            79
PNRU: Competitive Fund for Innovation              31.00          14.70            47
Management and Planning Capacity Building            6.10          3.00            49
Total Baseline Cost                                112.30         77.50
Physical Contingencies                              2.80
Price Contingencles                                11.10
Total Project Costs           126.20          77.50
Total Financing Required            126.20         77.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (at appraisal and actual/latest estimates) (in US$
million equivalent
" ' Expenditure    Procurement, arrangements: '     Procurerment arrangerents
i'!; Category   __        (al apprai id4). .1 ., .     actualflatest_estimates)  I
ICB    NCB   Other NFB     Total ICB    NCB1    Other NFB   Total
1. Works         0.0   36.6    4.8   5.5   46.9  31.3    0.4    2.0   0.0   33.7
2. Goods        43.7    0.0    6.9   0.0   50.6  23.6 _, 1.5    3.6   0.0   28.6
3. Services      0.0    0.0   22.3   0.0   22.3    0.0   0.0   13.2   0.0   13.2
4. Scholarships   0.0   0.0    6.4 1  0.0   6.4    0.0   0.0    1.9    0.0   1.9
Total           43.7   36.6   40.4   5.5  126.2   54.9   1.9   20.7    0.0  77.4
Project Financingl by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
'*1~ ~ ~ ~~  I   T.~~~~~~~  ~~~ ~Percent'age or,
'.'Component'y  .  .'AOpraisia Estimate             k A 'aes Eiate .a
, *; g '; .~>i.1  .i;., I'Banik "i _   CoF. | ;             . Bank ':! ' . -. I Got.* |l: CoF.|  Bank. 'Govt.  CoF.
ISETs: Technical Institutes  48.80  39.40         38.30    21.50            78.5  54.6
PNRU: Competitive Fund for  23.40  7.60           13.20     1.50           56.4   19.7
Innovation
Management and Planning  2.80    4.20              2.60    0.40             92.9  9.5
Capacity Building     I                I                         I_I
TOTAL                   75.00    51.20  1         54.00    23.40          172.0   45.7
- 12 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No cost-benefit analysis was undertaken.
-13 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
,Siage: 'P' oject y.cle  '  ,....  .,N'oQPysod' ''fid>S'e'eiy,'''-                      9.,i'te  "  ' <;'
....~~~~~~~~~~~4E" ; "- -. .A                                          ..!1(..21c s~  tD MS,et1).:, ;' J*r tiiil$ t r i
AppraisialNegotiation
October 1991              6       1 EE, 1 ST, I TE, 1 AD,
1 AR, l OP
S up e rvisilo n
November 1992              3   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AD                S            S
August 1993                4   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AR, 1 OP          S            S
November 1993              3   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AR/OP             S            S
March 1994                2    1 EE, 1 TE                      S            S
July 1994                  4   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AD, 1 AR/OP      S             S
February 1995              3   1 EE, I TE, 1 AD               S             S
December 1995              3   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AD                S            S
October 1996               4   1 EE, 1 TE, I AD, 1 AR/OP       S            S
March 1997                 4   1 EE, 1 TE, I AD, 1 AR/OP       S             S
October 1997              3    1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AD               S             S
April 1998                 3   1 EE, I TE, I AD                S             S
December 1998              3   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AD                S             S
July 1999                  4   1 EE, I TE, I AD, I OP          S             S
November 1999              2   1 EE, 1 OP                      S             S
June 2000                  7   1 EE, 1 TE, 1 AR, 2 OP, I       S             S
PR, 1 RP
November 2000              4    1 EE, I ED, 1 AR, l OP         S             S
June 2001                  4   1 EE, 1 AR, 2 OP                S             S
ICR
December 2001             3    1 ED, I AR, 2 OP, 1 SM          S             S
AD (Administration Specialist), AR (Architect), ED (Education Specialist), EE (Education Economist), OP
(Operations Assistant/Analyst/Specialist), PR (Procurement Specialist), RP (Regional Procurement Officer),
SM (Sector Manager), ST (Science & Technology Specialist), TE (Technical Education Specialist)
(b) Staff
,Stage' ofProj,ect Cce 'e,',1q,; s ' ¢-,  AC etuEaMtliE, 1,nit' 'T M z;8t- 
Appraisal/Negotiation                   86                      300.0
Supervision                            143                      500.0
ICR                                     19                       67.3
Total                                  275                      962.9
- 14 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
OSector Policies                    OH *SUOM ON O NA
O Physical                           * H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                         O H *SUOM O N O NA
2 Institutional Development         O H 0 SU O M O N 0 NA
OEnvironmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
OPoverty Reduction             OH OSUOM ON * NA
Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
EOther (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management          0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)            OH OSUOM ON O NA
-15



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                              Rating
F Lending                                        OHS OS       OLU   OHU
? Supervision                                    OHS OS       OU    OHU
N Overall                                        OHS OS       O u   OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                          Rating
Z Preparation                                    OHS OS       OU    O HU
F Government implementation performance          O HS O S     O U   O HU
Z Implementation agency performance              OHS OS       O U   OHU
F Overall                                        OHS OS       OU    OHU
-16 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report, February 26, 1992
Supervision aide-memoires and related documents, August 1993 - December 2001
Mid-Term Review Report, October 1996
Borrower's regular implementation reports
Government's annual audits
-17 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report
COMPOSANTE A: INSTITUTS SUPERIEURS D'ETUDES TECHNOLOGIQUES
Presentation du projet
Le projet des << ISET >> est l'une des trois composantes du projet de restructuration de l'enseignement
superieur (PRES) d'un cofit global de 69,2 millions de dinars dont 36,9 millions de dinars sont en devises et
32,3 millions de dinars en monnaie locale, ce qui represente pres de 60% du cofit global du projet P.R.E.S.
La composante A: ISET du projet a pour objectif la creation de plusieurs ISET dont cinq (05) d'entre eux ont
ete programmes dans le cadre de la composante ISET du projet et structuree en trois sous volets, a savoir: (i)
la construction de trois (03) nouveaux ISET, a Tunis, A Sousse et a Sfax et la transformation des deux
instituts superieurs techniques de Nabeul et de Gabes; (ii) le programme de formation et la formation des
formateurs; (iii) I 'acquisition des equipements pour les ISET.
n1 est a noter qu'il a ete ajoute la construction de deux autres ISET celui de Mahdia de Jendouba.
Les r6sultats degag6s du projet
Au niveau de degri d'atteinte des objectifs du projet
Le programme d'application des sous composantes du projet ISET est en totalite ex6cute ; les r6sultats
enregistres A ce stade avance d'execution du projet peuvent etre consideres satisfaisantes puisque tous les
ISET programmes dans le projet sont fonctionnels depuis septembre 1995 et celui de Mahdia a demarre en
septembre 2001 sauf celui de Jendouba il est en cours de construction.
Au niveau de la qualite de la mise en auvre du projet
La sous composante construction. Les travaux de construction des ISETs programmes sont acheves sauf les
travaux d'extension et d'amenagement de l'IST de Gabes qui ont accuse un retard dfi essentiellement A a la
demolition des anciens locaux delabres; F'achevement total de ces travaux est programme pour la fin du
mois de mars 2002. It est a noter que l'incompatibilite de quelques recommandations de la Banque Mondiale
avec la reglementation tunisienne a necessite une comprehension et une adaptation de la part de la
Commission Superieure des Marches qui a caus6 un retard dans le demarrage des travaux de construction.
Malgre ce retard, tous les ISET ont demarre dans les delais qui ont ete planifies.
La sous composante acquisition des equipements scientifigues et didactigues. Une equipe technique pour
l'acquisition des equipements au sein de la Direction des ISETs en collaboration avec les enseignants
utilisateurs dans les ISETs a e charg6e de la mise en ceuvre de cette operation qui s'est deroulee dans des
bonnes conditions.
La sous composante programme de fornation et formation des formateurs. Ce volet a pour objectif la
valorisation des ressources humaines et l'elaboration des programmes de formation et la formation des futurs
enseignants des ISETs. Le programme de formation des formateurs concerne trois (03) volets: un volet
scientifique; un volet technologique; un volet pedagogique. Six (06) etablissements d'enseignement
superieur en Tunisie ont pris en charge les deux (02) premiers volets de formation et ont ete habilites A
d6livrer des diplbmes specialises des futurs enseignants technologues : CESS dans les disciplines
technologiques, economiques et de gestion. Quant aux stages pedagogiques, ils ont ete realis6s a l'ranger
au sein des organismes similaires aux ISET (IUT, CEGEP, etc ...). Ce dispositif de formation a permis de
disposer d'un vivier d'enseignants bien formes des le demarrage des ISET. Quant au programme de
- 18 -



formation, sa mise en ceuvre a impliqu6 plusieurs intervenants: le milieu industriel, des enseignants et des
experts etrangers.
Au niveau de la pertinence des choix conceptuelle
Les diff*rentes composantes du projet ont permis de doter les ISET de structures et de possibilites humaines
et materielles qui leur ont facilite la mise en ceuvre des differentes missions qui leurs ont et assign6es. Le
systeme de formation dans les ISETs possede les specificites pedagogiques suivantes:
- la formation s'etale sur 5 semestres avec un volume horaire global qui varie de 1900 a 2300 heures dont 40
% environ -sont reserv6s pour la pratique;
- Pour une meme specialite, les programmes sont definis a l'echelle nationale a hauteur de 75% du volume
horaire total de la formation;
- les enseignements sont dispenses en petits groupe d'etudiants (36 en cours integres et 18 en travaux
pratiques ) avec un fort taux d'encadrement (1 enseignant pour 13 etudiants en moyenne;
- forte participation du milieu industriel a la formation (participation aux enseignements, visites, stages et
projets de fm d'etudes).
Le systeme a permis d'enregistrer de bons r6sultats au niveau notamment de son rendement aussi bien interne
( 87% est la moyenne de r6ussite) qu'exteme ( 83% est le taux d'insertion professionnelle des diplomes et ce,
en plus des 9% qui ont opte pour la poursuite des etudes plus poussees ). Le nombre total des dipl6mes des
ISET est 9.710 dipl8mes (sur 8 promotions). D'autre part, l'image de marque des filieres courtes s'est
nettement amdlior6e puisque les nouveaux bacheliers sont maintenant attires par les ISETs (le score d'acces a
progresse en 5 annees de 11 points ). Le r6seau des ISET s'est fortement developpe pendant les cinq
dernieres annees puisqu'il est actuellement constitue de 12 etablissements accueillant 17.000 6tudiants dans
plusieurs filieres de specialisation ((22 ) flieres et (54) options).
Au niveau de laprobabit de laptfrennit duprojet
La consolidation et la diversification des services du systeme ISET par la mise en aeuvre d'une part des
diff6rentes missions qui lui sont devolues (formation continue, travaux d'ingenierie, etc.) et d'autre part la
creation des p6pinieres d'entreprise qui lui ont et adoss6es (formations de futurs promoteurs.) ont encourage
les pouvoirs publics a la poursuite au niveau du 10eme plan quinquennal du programme de developpement du
systeme ISET et ce, par les pr6visions de la creation de 09 nouveaux etablissements qui seront implantes en
d'autres gouvernorats (a terme, chaque gouvemorat sera dote d'au moins un ISET qui constituera un noyau
pour la future creation de mini-pole universitaire et technologique ) et pour lesquels la BIRD a e  sollicit6e
pour une contribution financiere de leur realisation.
COMPOSANTE B: PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE RENOVATION UNIVERSITAIRE
L'accord du pret BIRD n° 3456/1TN relatif au Projet de restructuration de l'enseignement superieur' a e
signe a la fin de l'annee 1992, mais le demarrage effectif de sa composante B intitul&e Programme national
de renovation universitaire (PNRU) a eu lieu en 1994 avec le lancement du premier sous projet intitue <<
Cycle de formation doctorale en informatique >>.
La composante PNRU avait pour objectifs d'encourager les etablissements d'enseignement superieur a
reviser leurs programmes afin d'accroitre leur efficacite interne et externe et d'ameliorer la qualite de la
formation et des cours dispenses. Les sous projets presentes devaient, essentiellement, viser: la renovation
du premier cycle; la diversification des filieres; I'am6lioration des programmes de formation des
enseignants du secondaire et des ingenieurs; l'introduction de l'outil informatique; I'amelioration des
bibliotheques et services connexes; la r6vision des programmes de doctorat.
- 19 -



A la date de cl6ture du pret, le PNRU comptait 23 sous projets mis en place dans le but de concretiser ces
objectifs.
Degre d'atteinte des objectifs du projet
Malgre les difficultes rencontrees, le PNRU a eu un impact tres positif dans beaucoup de domaines de
l'enseignement superieur.
En effet, les differents sous projets ont permis:
(a) La mise en place de l'appui de reformes tres importantes tel que:
la reforme des maitrises (premiers et seconds cycles); la reforme des classes preparatoires aux 6tudes
d'ingenieurs; la reforme des etudes d'ingenieurs; la reforme des etudes d'architecture et d'urbanisme; la
reforme des etudes de musique et de musicologie; la reforme des etudes theologiques;
(b) L'introduction de l'enseignement de l'informatique dans tous les 6tablissements d'enseignement superieur
et de recherche, y compris dans les etablissements de lettres et de sciences humaines;
(c) La formation des formateurs en:
*  Informatique: 52 memoires de DEA, 4 theses d'Etat ancien regime, 5 theses de specialite ancien
regime, et 23 theses de doctorat nouveau regime ont e soutenus. 4 habilitations universitaires
ont ete accordees. 22 memoires de DEA, 3 theses d'Etat et 54 doctorats nouveau regime sont en
cours.
*  Sciences de l'education : 295 6tudiants ont obtenu leurs dipl6mes, 280 d'entre eux ont ete recrute
en tant que conseillers pedagogiques et 15 comme inspecteurs par le Ministere de l'Education.
*  Information et orientation scolaire et universitaire: 109 6tudiants ont ete inscrits au DESS. 82 ont
e  diplomes et recrutes comme conseillers en orientation.
*  Didactique des disciplines : 42 etudiants ont soutenus leurs memoires de DEA et 16 d'entre eux
preparent une these de doctorat en Tunisie. 5 etudiants ben6ficiant de bourses sur le PNRU et
poursuivant des etudes doctorales en sciences de l'education a l'etranger ont soutenu leurs theses
et 2 d'entre eux ont ete recrut6s en qualite d'assistants.
*  Architecture: 19 etudiants ont soutenu leurs memoires de DEA et preparent une these de
doctorat.
*  Urbanisme: I I 6tudiants ont soutenu leurs memoires de DEA et preparent une these de doctorat.
En outre, parmi les diplomes des DEA d'architecture et d'Urbanisme, 4 ont et recrutes comme
assistants et 6 en qualit6 d'assistants contractuels A l'ENAU.
*  Electronique: 16 etudiants ont soutenu leurs memoires de DEA et 7 d'entre eux preparent une
these de doctorat. 15 dipl6mes ont ete recrut6s dans les secteurs de l'enseignement et de
l'industrie.
*  Droit communautaire: 89 etudiants ont soutenu leurs memoires de DEA et 27 d'entre eux
preparent une these de doctorat.
*  Droit de l'environnement des espaces et de l'urbanisme: 36 etudiants ont soutenu leurs
memoires de DEA.
*  G6netique humaine: 16 etudiants ont soutenu leurs memoires de DEA et 5 d'entre eux preparent
une these de doctorat. 11 dipl6mes ont ete recrutes dans les secteurs de l'enseignement et de la
m6decine.
Le PNRU devait egalement permettre l'informatisation et l'interconnexion des bibliotheques des
etablissements universitaires, ce par la mise en place du projet BIRUNI. Toutefois, si le volet relatif A la
formation des ressources humaines a et realise par la mise en place d'un DESS pour la gestion des
bibliotheques universitaires (51 diplomes A la fin de l'annee 2000) et l'organisation de seminaires et de
sessions de recyclage au profit des personnels des bibliotheques (116 responsables et 170 agents), le volet
equipement a ete freine, d'une part, a cause des procedures d'acquisition qui ont pris beaucoup trop de temps
-20 -



et, d'autre part, parce que nous nous sonmmes trouves dans l'obligation d'annuler un marche qui etait a sa
derniere phase d'execution (AOI n° 39/99).
Difficults de mise en ceuvre et pertinence des choix conceptuels du PNRU
Le demarrage du PNRU a e tres difficile. Un appel d'offre pour financement de projets concernant
l'enseignement est une nouveaute pour nos universites. n1 a fallu un certain temps aux enseignants pour cerner
exactement ce qui etait demande, d'autant plus que, au debut de la mise en place du PNRU, il a ete signifie
que les equipements ne devaient pas occuper une grande partie dans les projets. Une campagne de
sensibilisation a et necessaire. Un certain nombre de sous projets ont, finalement, e  elabor6s mais
beaucoup ont ete elimines du fait qu'ils concernaient des projets odi la recherche etait preponderante (c'est le
type d'appel A projets auxquels les enseignants sont habitues depuis un grand nombre d'annees).
II a fallu du temps et de la patience, pour aider les souniissionnaires a presenter des sous projets eligibles A un
fmancement. Mais le nombre de sous projets retenus 6tait insuffisant. C'est pourquoi il a ete propose de
changer de methodologie et que les sous projets finances pouvaient etre federateurs (concernant plusieurs
etablissements) et etre concus et elabores par la direction generale des projets, des programmes et de la
pedagogie (devenue, depuis, la direction generale de la renovation universitaire) qui etait chargee de tous les
projets de reforme du Ministere.
On peut consid6rer que le veritable demarrage du PNRU a eu lieu en 1996 avec I'elaboration de projets
federateurs, concernant tous les etablissements dispensant les memes enseignements.
Le bon deroulement de l'execution des projets s'est avere difficile du fait que les chefs de projets sont des
enseignants universitaires qui, d'une part, n'ont souvent pas exerce de responsabilites administratives et
financieres et, d'autre part, sont tres occupes par leurs enseignements et leur recherche. Nous avons ete
amenes A engager par contrat des personnes pour les seconder dans leur tache, ce qui a pose un autre
probleme, celui des relations humaines.
Les marches et les appels d'offres: les procedures sont tres longues et tres lourdes. Si toutes les conditions
requises sont reunies et que les proc6dures de la Banque n'ont pas evolue entre temps (comme dans le cas de
l'appel d'offres n°19/99 relatif A l'acquisition d'equipements informatiques), entre la date ou il est decide
d'acquerir des equipements et la date oti ces equipements sont livres aux differents etablissements, il s'ecoule
de 18 a 24 mois.
Probabilite de p6rennite du projet et enseignements de l'exp6rience
Malgre les difficultes, le PNRU a donne naissance A des projets en continuation et qui ont perdure apres la fm
du fmancement par la BIRD. II s'agit notamment des sous projets visant la creation, I'appui ou le
renforcement de cycles de formation de formateurs dans des disciplines novatrices et a forte demande dont
notamment: le cycle de formation doctorale en informnatique; la formation de formateurs en sciences de
l'education; la formation doctorale en droit communautaire et relations Maghreb Europe; la formation en
genetique humaine a la Faculte de Medecine de Tunis; la formation de formateurs en architecture et en
urbanisme; la formation doctorale en electronique; la formation doctorale en droit de 1'environnement, de
l'amenagement des espaces et de l'urbanisme. Pour ces cycles de formation, le budget tunisien a pris la releve
pour assurer la continuite de leur financement.
Les differents projets de reforme de programmes (premiers cycles, maltrises, etudes d'ingenieurs) ont cr6e
une dynamique permettant l'actualisation et l'adaptation des differents enseignements et ont institue des
traditions de travail et une maniere de faire pour assurer une revision periodique des differents types de
formation. Les projets federateurs (TR-13, 17, 18 et 19) concus comme des operations ponctuelles ayant
pour objectif de renforcer les etablissements d'enseignement superieur avec des equipements informatiques,
trouvent leur continuite dans l'engouement des etudiants et des enseignants a l'outil informatique ainsi
vulgarise, ce qui presente une plate forme pour l'assimilation des nouvelles technologies comme outil de
formation, d'auto formation et de recherche.
- 21 -



D'autres projets etaient ponctuels par nature dans la mesure ou ils etaient mis en place pour: repondre a des
besoins d6termines telle que la realisation d'une enquete sur les caracteristiques socio-psychologiques des
etudiants ou la publication d'un guide des filieres, ou completer d'autre projet PNRU tels que l'acquisition de
livres pour les bibliotheques universitaires (BIRUNI). Le projet BIRUNI a survecu a la cloture du PNRU et
le financement des actions qui y sont inscrites est assure par le nouveau pret BIRD no 42971lUN relatif au
projet d'appui a la refornie de 1'enseignement superieur.
Enseignements A tirer de cette experience
*  Pour remedier au retard entre la n6gociation et l'octroi d'un pret, d'une part, et son demarrage
effectif, d'autre part, les projets presentes pour financement type PNRU sur un pret BIRD doivent etre
identifies et pratiquement "ficeles" avant la conclusion du pret.
*  Alleger les procedures de passation des marches et ne pas changer de procedure en cours d'execution
d'un march6 (cas de l'AOI n° 19/99).
*  Responsabiliser les chefs de projets et s'assurer qu'ils soient secondes dans la realisation de leurs
taches par des gestionnaires recrutes a cet effet et qui seraient responsables de la mise en place, de
l'execution et du suivi des differentes operations inscrites dans le cadre d'un projet.
COMPOSANTE C: APPUI A LA GESTION DU MINISTERE
SAGES
Le Systeme d'analyse et de gestion de l'enseignement superieur (SAGES) a connu beaucoup de retards a
cause d'une conception trop ambitieuse au depart: mise en place totale du systeme INESS de gestion de la
scolarite, elaboration d'un fichier exhaustif des enseignants, enquete locaux. Toutes ces composantes
prealables ont pu etre realisees partiellement. Pour mettre en place le systeme SAGES il fallait elaborer une
conception operationnelle qui soit moins gourmande en infornmations tout en preservant les avantages
importants du systeme. Cette configuration a pu etre elaboree et un prototype de logiciel developpe en
collaboration avec la direction de l'organisation, des methodes et de l'informatique du MES.
L'utilisation du SAGES est maintenant integre dans la formation des gestionnaires. Ce systeme sert
egalement de base a deux actions importantes: (i) le systeme d'evaluation des etablissements
d'enseignement superieur, qui utilise comme cceur de sa base de donnees celle du systeme SAGES; et (ii)
les travaux du comite mixte (finances et enseignement superieur) sur l'e1aboration d'un projet experimental
de gestion par objectifs et la contractualisation des relations entre MES et etablissements universitaires
(projet pilote) qui utilise le referentiel du systeme d'evaluation.
Le MES est actuellement en train de voir les modalites de mise en aeuvre du SAGES, outil informatise de
programmation et de gestion des ressources (budget, personnel et infrastructure) au sein des universit6s.
Cette mise en place se fera dans le cadre du Projet d'appui a la r6forme de l'enseignement superieur (4297-
TUN).
Formation de zestionnaires
La creation d'un cycle de formation des gestionnaires des etablissements de l'enseignement superieur et des
ceuvres universitaires permet d'avoir une nouvelle gen6ration de cadres administratifs au niveau de
l'enseignement superieur. Cette formation specialisee est venue dans un contexte de mise a niveau de
l'administration publique qui vise non seulement la restructuration des organes administratifs mais egalement
- 22 -



la valorisation des ressources humaines par l'am6lioration des actions de recrutement et de formation afm
d'ameliorer le niveau d'encadrement.
Ainsi, former ses propres cadres administratifs constitue une nouveaute en soi pour le Ministere de
l'Enseignement Superieur. C'est donc par le decret N°96-2221 du 11 novembre 1996 qu'a e  le cycle de
formation des administrateurs conseillers appeles A exercer aupres des etablissements de l'enseignement
superieur et de recherche et des etablissements d'ceuvres universitaires.
L'examen des effectifs <( cadres >> dans les etablissements de 1'enseignement superieur, d'une part, et
I'evolution des effectifs etudiants, d'autre part, explique un besoin croissant en cadres dans les
etablissements de l'enseignement superieur et des ceuvres universitaires.
Le besoin en cadres
D'apres l'article 9 du decret N° 71-362 du 09 octobre 1971 fixant le statut des cadres communs des
administrations centrales, tel qu'il a e modifie par le decret N°72-152 du 02 mai 1972, 1'administration a
besoin de cadres et en particulier des adniinistrateurs conseillers pour encadrer les services de l'Etat Outre
1'encadrement, d'autres raisons ont e stipul6es, A savoir assurer des taches d'administration, contr8ler et
inspecter au sein desdits services.. Ainsi l'encadrement n'est pas une simple tache mais une veritable mission
pour bien gerer les activit6s et les ressources humaines qui les menent.
L 'encadrement dans les etablissements de 1'enseignement superieur
Le rapport de depouillement de questionnaire sur le personnel de gestion administrative et financiere Ce
rapport est realise par Abdallah Boubaker et Chawki Gaddes en decembre 1993 dans le cadre de
l'amelioration de la gestion administrative et financiere des etablissements de 1'enseignement superieur et de
recherche et dans le cadre du projet de restructuration de l'enseignement superieur. des etablissements de
1'enseignement superieur et de recherche, etablit en 1993, on constate que les administrations des differents
etablissements sont constituees en majorite par d'ouvriers sachant que les agents de maitrise et les cadres
moyens sont d'un nombre tres reduits.
Dans une telle situation, le Secr6taire General doit s'occuper de toutes les taches administratives jusqu'aux
plus petits d6tails, ce qui est tres difficile a realiser. DMs lors, pour am6liorer 1'encadrement dans les
etablissements, il est indispensable d'injecter de nouveaux agents d'encadrement et de conception, afm
d'assister les responsables administratifs A accomplir leurs taches et a ameliorer le rendement tant sur le plan
qualitatif que sur le plan quantitatif.
Par ailleurs, on constate que le taux d'encadrement des etudiants par les agents administratifs et ouvriers et
tres faible dans la majorite des etablissements de 1'enseignement superieur. En effet, sur 60 etablissements
etudies seulement 33 ont un taux d'encadrement qui d6passe les 8%. Cette situation peut se deteriorer
davantage si on observe l'evolution des effectifs etudiants.
L 'evolution de l'effecdf itudiant
L'effectif des etudiants est passe de 80.000 A 100.000 entre 1991 et 1995 et a atteint les 120.000 etudiants
durant cette annee universitaire (2000 - 2001); sachant qu'il peut depasser les 400.000 etudiants dans la
prochaine decennie.
L'explosion des effectifs etudiants a sans doute des consequences sur les moyens mat6riels et humains A
deployer pour faire face aux nouvelles exigences. En effet, il est indispensable d'ameliorer davantage le taux
d'encadrement par l'injection de nouveaux gestionnaires capables d'assister les decideurs et de prendre en
charge des responsabilit6s.
-23 -



Pour faire face aux problemes d'encadrement au niveau de I'administration de ses etablissements, les
decideurs du Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur avaient le choix entre soit le recrutement soit la
formation de nouveaux cadres. Le choix a et fait sur l'action de formation dont on expliquera les raisons.
Le besoin en formation
Avant de presenter les avantages de la formation specialisee dans l'enseignement sup6rieur, il est necessaire
d'avoir une idee sur le profil des gestionnaires des etablissements de l'enseignement superieur dans un
premier sous paragraphe mettant en evidence la necessite d'une formation.
Le profil des gestionnaires des etablissements de l'enseignement supirieur
D'apres le tableau suivant, on constate que la plupart des gestionnaires ont un profil d'enseignant. Leur
formation dans le domaine de la gestion s'est donc faite sur le tas avec quelques rares session de formation.
Cette situation peut causer quelques difficultes a la bonne marche des etablissements, et un manque
d'uniformite entre les etablissements.
Fonction                        Secretaires       Secretaires    Secr6taires d'Etablissement
Generaux          Principaux
Grade
Enseignants                        25                 25                     39
Administrateurs Generaux             5                 6                     10
Administrateurs Conseillers          -         __3
Bibliothecaires                                       1 
Certes, l'apport des enseignants gestionnaires a e et est toujours important dans les etablissements de
l'enseignement superieur, mais de nouvelles logiques de gestion rendent indispensable d'avoir de nouveaux
cadres connaissant a la fois le systeme d'enseignement et les procedures administratives.
Les avantages de laformadon splcialisde 
*  Former des cadres specialises pour l'enseignement superieur est benefique pour les raisons
suivantes:
*  Eviter le recrutement des cadres non specialises dans l'enseignement superieur pour ne pas
changer les methodes de travail;
*  Une formation prealable est indispensable non seulement pour donner les savoirs necessaires et
specifiques pour la gestion des structures de l'enseignement superieurs mais aussi pour
transmettre un savoir-faire.
*  Montrer les dysfonctionnements actuels et essayer d'apporter les remedes necessaires.
*  Permettre aux nouveaux cadres une integration facile et une operationnalite immediate.
*  Eviter une inadequation entre le profil des postes et le profil des gestionnaires dans les
etablissements de l'Enseignement Superieur.
Les objectifs et le dispositif de la formation
Objectfs
Ces objectifs sont exprimes sous forme de savoir, de savoir-faire et de savoir etre que doit acquerir le forme
dans l'exercice de ses activites. Les objectifs pedagogiques determinent le savoir necessaire qu'un forme doit
-24 -



avoir en prealable. L'analyse des besoins et l'etude des profils des postes effectues aupres des responsables
de l'Enseignement Superieur et publie dans l'etude prealable effectuee au mois d'avril 1995 Formation des
gestionnaires des etablissements d'Enseignement Superieur et d'cruvre universitaires. L'etude prealable
realisee par le Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur en avril 1995. ont permis de definir les objectifs de la
formation, et par consequent le referentiel des competences jugees comme souhaitables pour les gestionnaires
de l'enseignement superieur.
Ces objectifs sont resumes dans les cinq champs:
*  Champ interpersonnel: Ce champ est associe a l'importance des relations interpersonmelles qui
contribuent a l'atteinte des objectifs personnels, et organisationnels.
*   Champ de l'intervention : Ce champ permet de bien piloter une organisation d'enseignement
superieur.
* Champ de la scolarite: Ce champ decrit les competences entourant la gestion'de la scolarite.
* Champ de l'administration generale : Ce champ regroupe les grandes fonctions administratives et
financieres qui relevent de la responsabilite du gestionnaire.
*  Champ du contexte : Ce champ represente les divers facteurs qui influent l'institution
d'enseignement superieur avec lesquels le gestionnaire doit composer.
Chaque champs comprend les competences necessaires pour l'accomplissement du profil du gestionnaires
des 6tablissements de l'enseignement superieur et des ceuvres universitaires.
Champ interpersonnel
Objectifs             Referentiel des comp6tences : savoir, savoir-faire et savoir etre
Des habilites dans les  - Etre un habile communicateur
communications        - Savoir s'adapter aux differents interlocuteurs
ecrites et orales     - Savoir rediger en arabe et en francais des rapports, des notes, des PV...
Des habilites dans les  - Etre capable d'encourager la participation et l'innovation
relations avec        - Savoir recompenser les performances realisees
1'environnement       - Savoir-faire preuve de fermete
interne et exteme.    - Etre un guide et un exemple pour chacun
- Etre attentif aux communications avec les autorites et les medias
- savoir informer la communaute et susciter la participation de l'environnement
Diplomatie            - Etre a l'ecoute de son entourage
- Savoir utiliser du tact et de la diplomatie dans les relations avec les autres
- Etre sensible aux diversites culturelles
- Savoir g6rer les situations ambigues
Champ de l'intervention
Objectifs           Referentiel des competences : savoir, savoir-faire et savoir 8tre
Leadership          - Savoir accompagner le dirigeant avec efficacite
Savoir guider les interventions des agents educatifs des collaborateurs et des
subalternes
- savoir formuler des objectifs
- Etre un expert des methodes de gestion de l'enseignement superieur.
Recueil et analyse  - Savoir realiser des recherches de donnees
des donnees         - Savoir classer, organiser et contr6ler les informations recues.
Resolution des      - Savoir identifier les elements centraux d'une problematique et d'un determiner des
problemes           causes
- Savoir trouver la /les solutions
- 25 -



Jugement             - Savoir prendre les decisions pertinentes en fonction des informations disponibles
Planification        - Savoir etablir des priorites a court et a long terme
- Savoir diriger des projets et atteindre les objectifs dans les d6lais
- Savoir etablir des etudes, des previsions, des outils de diagnostic, d'indications et
de methodologie de projet.
Realisation          - Savoir conduire les actions a leur terme
- Savoir s'adapter aux nouvelles conditions et se centrer sur les r6sultats
Delegation           - Savoir deleguer son autorite a ses collaborateurs afin de conduire les taches et les
projets.
- Savoir responsabiliser le personnel.
Developpement        - Savoir identifier les besoins professionnels de son equipe
des ressources       - Savoir encadrer le developpement professionnel de son 6quipe
humaines             - Savoirjouer le role de superviseur
Champ de la scolarite
Objectifs           Referentiel des comp6tences: savoir, savoir-faire et savoir etre
Un environnement     - Savoir initier un cadre de travail qui facilite la formation
de formation         - Savoir developper un environnement universitaire riche pour un enseignement de
haute qualite et un apprentissage adopt6e aux besoins differencies des etudiants.
Une orientation des  - Savoir informer et orienter l'etudiant
6tudiants
Gestion de           - Savoir les regles et les procedures, l'inscription de suivi des donnes de
programmes           programmation des enseignements, de leur deroulement et de la gestion de
I'assiduite
- Savoir apporter des ameliorations continues aux methodes existantes.
Champ de l'administration generale
Objectifs           ReferentIel des competences: savoir, savoir-faire et savoir etre
La gestion des       - Connaitre les regles et les documents de la fonction publique qui regissent le droit
personnels           et le contentieux administratif des differentes categories de personnels et de son
6tablissement
- Savoir l'organisation et la repartition des taches 
La gestion           - Connaitre les regles de la gestion des finances publiques et la budgetisation.
financiere           - Connaitre la preparation, I'adoption, 1'execution et le controle des budgets.
- Connaitre les politiques budgetaires et financieres.
- Connaitre les contrats et les march6s publics.
La gestion des       Connaitre les regles et les methodes d'entretien et de maintenance des equipements.
ressources           - Connaitre l'inventaire et la gestion des stocks
materielles          - Connaitre la gestion du parc auto, la securite et l'environnement.
La gestion de        - Connaitre les nouvelles ressources de la gestion de l'information
l'informatique       - Connaitre l'organisation et les methodes de la bureautique et de l'informatique de
gestion.
- Connaitre les logiciels utilises et les experiences en enseignement superieur.
-26-



Champ de contexte
Objectifs           Referentiel des competences : savoir, savoir-faire et savoir etre
L'analyse           - Etre attentif aux attentes et aux comportements des diff6rents acteurs.
sociologique        - Savoir realiser des analyses de la dynamique sociale.
- Connaitre les m6thodes au service sociales.
La politique        - Savoir developper des habilites necessaires pour comprendre l'univers public de
son etablissement, afin de realiser les objectifs traces.
- Etre sensible a l'evolution de certains aspects publics l'int6rieur de son
etablissement A ceuvrer avec ces demiers.
La 1lgislation      - Connaitre et savoir appliquer les lois, les politiques et les procedures qui
concernent l'institution scolaire.
La cooperation      - Etre l'une des principales interfaces de l'ouverture de son 6tablissement au r6seau
internationale      des etablissements etrangers d'enseignement superieur.
- Connaitre l'organisation de 1'enseignement sup6rieur au sein des principaux pays
_____ __  partenaires.
Les competences englobent:
*   Les savoirs tels que : Connaitre les nouvelles ressources de la gestion de l'information, connai^tre
les cadres legaux et r6glementaires.
*  Les q< savoir-faire > lie A l'utilisation d'outils comme savoir utiliser le mat*riel infornmatique et les
logiciels, etc. ; et les << savoir-faire )> cognitif comme savoir mettre en ouvre les m6thodes de
gestion, savoir rediger un PV, etc .
* Le < savoir - etre >> qui se compose d'un:
* Le << savoir - etre >> relationnel comme etre diplomate, etre ferme, et 8tre a 1'ecoute, etc.
* Le << savoir - etre > interne cormme etre un guide et un exemple pour chacun.
Le dispositif
Face a ces referentiels de competences, le regime des etudes a ete fixe par l'arrete du 8 octobre 1997.
Les r6aIisations
Unfinancement de la Banque mondiale
Grace A un financement de la Banque mondiale ce projet a demarre en 1995 pour la formation de cinq
promotions. Un pret BIRD depassant les 100 OOOD est accorde pour chaque promotion (annexe 2).
Actuellement trois promotions (94 administrateurs conseillers) exercent aupres du Ministere de
l'Enseignement Superieur, des universites et des dtablissements d'enseignement superieur (Annexe3).
L 'affectation des administratewrs conseillers sortants
SERVICES                                             %
Financier                                            29.6
Affaires estudiantines                               20.4
Personnel administratif technique et ouvrier         11.1
Personnel enseignant                                 9.3
Planification et statistique                         5.6
Cooperation                                          5.6
- 27 -



Concours et examens                                 3.7
Batiment et 6quipement                              3.7
Recherche scientifigue                              3.7
Activite socioculturelle                            1.9
Non-reponse                                         5.6
Total                                              100.0
II est a noter que la majorite des dipl6mds sont affect6s dans les services fnanciers, (29.6%), des affaires
estudiantines (20.4%). Insi, c'est bien la oui le besoin se faisait le plus ressentir que les sortants de cette
formation ont et affect6.
L 'adequation entre laformation et I 'emploi selon lesformes
D'apres les resultats du questionnaire adresse aux diplomes, il est constat6 qu'une partie des matieres a servi
plus que d'autre aux formes dans 1'exercice de leurs activites. Ces matieres peuvent etre regroupees dans trois
groupes:
Le groupe des matieres relatives a la gestion administrative et financiere. Parmi les matieres qui ont servi le
plus les form6s dans l'exercice de leurs activites nous trouvons:
*  Le droit administratif 1 et 2
* La gestion financiere 1 et 2 et la comptabilite-finances publiques
* Les marches publics
Le groupe des matieres li6es au management. Au niveau de ce groupe et pour les matieres qui servent le
plus, les formes ont cite les techniques d'animation des groupes et la gestion des conflits et negociation. Une
etude des frequences croisees entre les matieres qui servent le plus et les services qu'occupent la majorite des
issus de la formation nous mene a ce constat: La concentration des matieres qui servent le plus dans les
groupes des matieres li6es a la gestion administrative et financiere et aux managements s'expliquer par la
concentration de la majorite des formes dans des services relevant de la direction administrative et financiere.
Le groupe des matieres liees aux comp6tences diverses. Au niveau de ce groupe, les personnes questionnees
ont cite les modules suivant comme etant celles qui servent le plus a l'exercice de l'emploi:
* Les techniques d'expression en arabe et en francais au taux de la planification de 1'enseignement
superieur
* L'informatique I et 2 au taux de 25.3%
*  Statistique 1 au taux de 13.3%
Ainsi et selon les resultats, seulement 14 matieres sur 29 ont servi pleinement et directement a l'exercice de
leur emploi. Cela n'exclue pas l'importance des autres matieres. En effet, la majorite des personnes
questionnees ont confirme que les matieres qui n'ont pas une utilite immediate dans la realisation des taches
permettent de comprendre d'autres aspects du fonctionnement de l'administration.
L 'adequadon entre laformation et l'emploi
La majorite des superieurs hierarchiques 52.6% pensent que les connaissances pre-requises sont suffisantes,
26.3% pensent qu'elles sont moyennement suffisantes, 10.5% estiment qu'elles sont largement suffisantes et
5.3% estiment au contraire qu'elles ne sont pas du tout suffisantes. D'ailleurs, toujours d'apres les superieurs
hierarchiques des ces dipl8mes, la majorite des issus de la formation etaient immediatement operationnelle
selon 52.6% questionnes, 47.4% voient qu'il n'etait pas immediatement operationnel et qu'il leur a fallu une
- 28 -



ann6e et plus r6aliser convenablement les taches qui leur sont confiees. Cette periode estjugee n6cessaire du
moment que P'op6rationnalite optimale selon 31.6% des personnes interrogees n'intervient qu'au bout d'une
annee d'un travail effectif. Aussi, le projet initialement prevu pour cinq promotions, seraient en voie d'etre
prolonge pour quelques autres promotions dont le nombre reste a determiner.
- 29 -









IMAGING
Report No.:        24214
Type:     ICR



