Page  1
December 21, 1998
H.E. Mohamed Ghannouchi 
Minister of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment 
98, Avenue Mohamed V 1002 Tunis-Belvédère  
Republic of Tunisia
Re:
Loan No. 3456-TUN
(Higher Education Restructuring Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement      
Your Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Higher Education Restructuring Project) dated 
April 11, 1992, between the Republic of Tunisia (the Borrower) and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank.  We also refer to the request to 
the Bank contained in the letter on your behalf dated September 18, 1998 to amend the 
Loan Agreement with a view to adding two (2) new ISETs to be financed by the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due consideration, has agreed 
to the above.  Accordingly, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
 Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan) is modified to increase the 
percentage of financing of Category 1 (a) from 40% to 70%, and will read as set forth 
in Attachment I hereto.
2.
Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) is modified to read as follows: 
“Part (A): Establishment of Higher Institutes of Technology (ISETs)
Carrying out of a program to establish seven (7) ISETs offering intensive 
programs aimed at training technical graduates, consisting of:
1)
Construction of five new ISETs in Tunis, Sfax, Sousse, Mahdia and 
Jendouba, and conversion of the ISTs in Nabeul and Gabes in ISETs, and provision of 
equipment, furniture, textbooks and technical assistance”.
 All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall 
remain in full force and effect.
 Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Republic of 
Tunisia's authorized representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating 
the corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us 
at your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is 
enclosed herewith for the Republic of Tunisia’s official records. This amendment 
letter shall become effective as of the date it has been fully executed by the parties 
thereto.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Christian Delvoie 
    Director 
    Maghreb Department 
    Middle East and North Africa Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
       Authorized Representative
Date: 05 January 1999          
