Report No. PID9798
Project Name                     Cambodia-Social Fund II Supplemental (@)
Financing For Flood Rehabilitation Of
Small Scale Infrastructure
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Social Assistance
Project ID                       KHPE73310
Implementing Agency              Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
Date of PID Preparation          April 23, 2001
Date of Appraisal                March 30, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 5, 2001
Background
1.     Flooding in Cambodia during the 1999-2000 rainy season has been the
worst in 30 years.    Two separate flooding episodes struck the country, the
first in July 2000 and the second beginning in the end of August.     At last
count, 20 provinces and 3.4 million people have been affected: 347 people
have died and 84,000 families have been evacuated.     Of particular importance
is the severity of the second round of flooding, which caught farmers
completely by surprise and destroyed their second attempt to plant and grow a
wet season rice crop.
2.      Mission estimates at pre-appraisal in December 2000 indicate that
nearly 1500 school buildings have incurred substantial damage; some 120
health centers and hospitals inundated; thousands of km of rural roads have
been destroyed by flooding; hundreds of small bridges and culverts have
been damaged or washed away completely; over 21,000 rural wells have been
damaged; and widespread damage has occurred to irrigation infrastructure and
canals. In addition, national infrastructure has also been hard hit,
especially national roads, bridges, and large scale irrigation schemes.
Rural households have endured very large losses to crops, fields, and
housing. Total damage has been estimated by the Government at US $161
million, including public and private assets.
3.     A Bank appraisal mission visited Cambodia in March 2001 in order to
appraise a proposed Cambodia Social Fund II Supplemental IDA credit to
support the rehabilitation of small scale infrastructure damaged or destroyed
during the floods that struck Cambodia last year.
4.     The objectives of the mission were to obtain sufficient information on
the scale of flood damage to small scale infrastructure (rural water supply,
irrigation, roads, bridges, culverts, schools, health facilities), the
amounts of assistance expected to be delivered by donors to rehabilitate the
infrastructure, the resulting gaps in financing, the capacity of national and
provincial entities to prepare such estimates of damage and to rank their
priority needs for immediate rehabilitation, and the scope of any necessary
technical assistance to complement available capacity.
Poverty Impact and Economic Effects



5.     Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world, with per capita
income of $290 in 1999 and poverty incidence estimated at over 40 percent in
rural areas.   Cambodia ranks 137 out of 174 countries covered in the UNDP
Human Development Index.    Cambodia's rural poor are highly vulnerable to
severe shocks to both their flow of income and to their stock of productive
assets, both of which have endured heavy losses during the 2000 floods.
Compounding the difficulties of their recovery during the dry season
(November 2000 - June 2001) will be the destruction of public assets on which
they depend for their livelihoods (transport, health, water supply,
irrigation).   It is essential to provide for increased employment
opportunities during the dry season through public works and to rebuild
critical infrastructure that will allow the rural poor to plant and harvest
successfully over the next rainy season.
Targeting Strategy
6.     The impacts of the 2000 floods are concentrated in those low lying,
densely populated areas, neighboring the Mekong River and the Tonle Sap
River and Lake.    These areas are relatively fertile and productive, and are
thus correlated with relatively higher incomes than the more hilly and remote
regions that have escaped extensive flooding. Flood response activities will
be unavoidably targeted to better off areas, and are likely to rebuild highly
productive assets (transport and irrigation).
Response of the International Community
7.     Cambodia is endowed with a substantial donor community in residence,
many of whom have specialized in disaster preparedness and response.
Substantial resources have already been mobilized to provide food, shelter,
implements and seed assistance to affected families and farmers.
8.     Total expected assistance for flood damaged small-scale infrastructure
rehabilitation is approximately US $36.38 million. Sectoral distribution of
the $36.38 million is heavily weighted to transport with 55t of the total
assistance. Irrigation is the next largest sector.      The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) is the single largest source of funds, with a recently approved
Emergency Credit.
Assessment of Flood Damage to Small Scale Infrastructure
9.      The assessment of   total flood damage to small scale infrastructure   is
complicated by limited institutional capacity at the National Committee for
Disaster Management (NCDM), the varying capacities of individual ministries
to obtain accurate estimates, and the inherent difficulty in identifying
flood damage from other causes of infrastructure failure. Thus the best gage
available on total damage appears to be the provincial priority lists that
have been submitted by the Provincial Committees of Disaster Management
(PCDM) to SFKC. As of end March 2001, SFKC had received 1,416 applications
for flood rehabilitation assistance from 13 out of the 21 flood-affected
provinces. The total value of these applications is approximately US$30.2
million.  This is a 50t increase since February 2001, at which point the SFKC
had received about $21 million in applications. It is thus reasonable to
expect further applications and that the US $50 million estimated during the
November 2000 pre-appraisal mission will remain a workable upper bound for
small-scale infrastructure rehabilitation needs.    This provides ample demand
for both SFKC and other donor financed initiatives in small scale
-2 -



infrastructure rehabilitation, as estimated at pre-appraisal. Those
applications that SFKC cannot finance with supplemental resources will be
passed on to the NCDM for assignment to other donor programs.
10.     Such estimates, however, cannot be relied upon to rank provinces in
terms of severity of damage and thus for targeting rehabilitation financing.
The provincial cost estimates undertaken in December last year produced
counter intuitive results, in that some lightly flooded provinces showed high
infrastructure rehabilitation costs.    This may have reflected differing
provincial capacities to submit estimates rather than actual damage.
Utilizing another methodology undertaken by the World Food Program, which
examined satellite photography during the floods to assess extent of flooded
areas and the population so affected, the mission ranked provinces by number
of people affected. This method resulted in a more intuitive ranking, but
with no rehabilitation costs attached.    In order to avoid misallocation of
resources under the credit, the SFKC will allocate the supplemental resources
to target provinces proportionally based on number of people affected per
province.
Bank Response and Rationale
11.    The beginning of the dry season and the ebbing of flood waters in
November marks the first opportunity to accurately estimate flood damaged
infrastructure, to appraise potential projects, and to initiate construction.
For irrigation works and bridges and culverts, the onset of the rainy season
around August/September, 2001 will force the suspension of new project
launches, as river beds and canals fill with run off.     Thus, there is an
urgency to the launch of transport and irrigation projects, particularly
those that are critical to production and transport before the coming wet
season.
12.    The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) was established by
the Cambodian Government by means of a Royal decree in 1995 and has been in
operation continuously since then with financial support from a first IDA
credit (Social Fund I - $20 million), a second IDA Credit (Social Fund II -
$25 million), co-financing from American Assistance to Cambodia ($2 million)
and from the OPEC Fund of approximately $8 million. The SFKC has supported
nearly 2000 individual sub-projects, distributed over every province and
district in the country. The sub projects are in schools; rural water
supply, bridges and culverts, health facilities, irrigation, urban water
supply and markets and training.      This sectoral distribution contains
substantial overlap with reports of flood damage to rural, small scale
infrastructure, thus positioning SFKC well to respond.
13.    For SFKC to respond quickly during this dry season, the Bank and the
SFKC agreed that the flood rehabilitation effort over this dry season will
take precedence over all other sub-project approvals.
Project Objectives and Description
14.     The objectives of the project remain those of SFII, namely to support
Cambodia's reconstruction through the financing of small scale, community
based infrastructure, to create short term employment opportunities in
construction, and to strengthen communities and local government through a
demand driven sub-project identification and preparation process.
- 3 -



15.     The components of the Project, will include:
? Sub project grants ($9 million): repair and rehabilitation of small
scale infrastructure damaged by Floods.
? SFKC administrative costs ($.8 million):    SFKC will incur
additional administrative costs (salaries, travel, equipment, etc.)
to manage the incremental sub-projects. This component will sustain
SFKC's compliance with its legal limitation to contain
administrative costs below 8t of total costs.
? Technical Assistance ($.2 million): SFKC will utilize the TA
resources to recruit consultants and technical services to assess
its performance in flood rehabilitation, develop data bases for
transfer to national disaster coordination entities and projects,
conduct beneficiary, technical and procurement assessments, and
conduct training in operational topics (irrigation, appraisal
procedures).
16.     Partnerships for the Project will be structured with the National
Disaster Management Committee, the UN Disaster Management Committee, the
Ministry of Rural Development, the World Food Program and the Cambodian Red
Cross. During the pilot phase, SFKC has worked well with NCDM and PCDMs in
the identification of sub-projects. This collaboration has helped to prevent
overlap in project funding. Donor agencies (excluding the Bank) have a seat,
along with provincial officials, on the PCDMs. An important challenge for
SFKC is to manage its contractual obligations with other donors in light of
the urgent priority of flood sub-projects; so far donors have agreed to some
delays in their sub-projects with SFKC to allow for flood project processing.
Financial Management
17.     The financial management arrangements will exactly overlap with those
for the underlying credit, with the one exception that the sub-project
disbursements under flood rehabilitation will be coded separately (similar to
the separate coding for MOU sub projects, that is sub projects that are
being processed in accordance with an MOU signed between SFKC and a donor
agency).   In all other respects, the supplemental is simply added to the
balance of the credit. There will be no separate coding for other categories
of expenditure.
Environmental Impact
18.     The SFII and Supplemental Credit resources will now finance an
increasing proportion of irrigation and transport due to the flood
rehabilitation program, raising the risks of environmental impacts and
requiring a more vigilant and systematic approach to appraising such risks
and monitoring impacts during construction and handover.     A consultant with
experience in this area will be engaged to help revise operational manual
procedures and criteria for environmental risk management in the sub-project
cycle and to provide further training.
Issues and Risks
19.    There are two potential constraints to the timeliness and scale of SFKC
- 4 -



flood response: adequate implementation of the new procurement arrangements;
and procedures and criteria that may not be suitable for an emergency
response.
20.     Procurement in SFKC operations has been inconsistent in terms of
procurement management, particularly in the management of direct contracting.
A series of procurement reforms have been introduced by SFKC, including the
cessation of direct contracting as an eligible method of procurement. Direct
contracting has been replaced by a limited form of competitive bidding. The
remaining question is the effectiveness of these reforms in improving
procurement performance. To achieve a high level of certainty on this
remaining issue, the SFKC agreed to send a combined Technical
Assessment/Beneficiary Assessment team back into the field to review 25-30
projects that have been implemented under the new procedures. This
notification and procurement assessment was completed by March 2001, at which
time the Bank appraisal mission was able to proceed.
21.    In regard to SFKC procedures, the mission and SFKC reached agreement
that three procedures would be modified. First, the appraisal criteria
governing the proportion of earth moving costs (repairs to dikes and canals)
allowed under irrigation projects will be increased from 30t to 50t of total
project costs, with higher proportions allowed on a World Bank no objection
basis. Second, the appraisal criteria governing the proportion of road
repair costs allowed for bridge and culvert projects will be increased from
10t to 50w, with higher proportions allowed under a World Bank no objection
basis. Third, the mandatory community/applicant contribution to total project
costs will be lowered to 59 for flood rehabilitation sub-projects.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Chrisotopher Chamberlin
Task Manager
5788+344
Bangkok, Thailand
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 27, 2001.
- 5 -



