                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 33703

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-31790 IDA-31791 PPFI-Q1100)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         TO THE

                                KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                         FOR A

                                SOCIAL FUND II PROJECT




                                    December 19, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel
                                      Riel = US$ 0.0002392
                                    US$ 1 = 4,181 Cambodian Riels

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAfC    -     American Assistance for Cambodia
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
ITBA    -     Independent Technical and Beneficiary Assessment
IAU     -     Internal Audit Unit
ICR     -     Implementation Completion Report
MOEF    -     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MoU     -     Memorandum of Understanding
NGO     -     Non-Government Organization
NPV     -     Net Present Value
OPEC    -     Organizational of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD     -     Project Appraisal Document
PSC     -     Project Support Committee
RGC     -     Royal Government of Cambodia
SFI     -     Cambodia Social Fund Project
SFII    -     Cambodia Social Fund II Project
SFKC    -     Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
SPU     -     Sustainability Program Unit
UCD     -     Unit Cost Database




                           Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din-Kassum, EAPVP
                         Country Director     Ian C. Porter, EACTF
                   Acting Sector Director     Tamar Manuelyan Atinc, EASHD
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Minna Hahn, EACTF

                                         CAMBODIA
                                    Social Fund II Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P050601                                                  Project Name: Social Fund II Project
Team Leader: Minna J. Hahn                                           TL Unit: EACTF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Fund II Project                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-31790; IDA-31791;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1100
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (30%); Other social services (20%); Irrigation
                            and drainage (20%); Roads and highways (20%); Water supply
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social
                            protection and risk management (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/05/1998                                     Effective: 04/30/1999                07/07/1999
     Appraisal: 01/15/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  09/20/2002
      Approval: 03/23/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Kingdom of Cambodia/Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
                      Other Partners:      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, American Assistance for
                                           Cambodia

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Director:                Tamar Manuelyan Atinc                          Kristalina I. Georgieva
Team Leader at ICR:             Minna J. Hahn                                  Christopher Chamberlin
ICR Primary Author:             Minna J. Hahn


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As the Social Fund I (SFI) project neared completion, the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC)
requested continued World Bank support to the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
(SFKC). As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Social Fund II (SFII) project
aimed to: (i) provide small-scale, community-based subprojects in the areas of social and
economic infrastructure with emphasis on the poor; (ii) create short-term employment
opportunities to absorb the increase in unemployment associated with post-crisis reverse
migration of workers from Thailand and the demobilization of Cambodian army units; (iii)
strengthen the capacity of communities to implement development projects and sustain them; (iv)
improve donor coordination and financing; and (v) improve poverty and district targeting.

The SFII responded to the country context and the RGC's development priorities. At the time of
project preparation, government attention was shifting from emergency relief to nationwide
reconstruction and longer-term development goals. The project supported RGC priorities as
outlined in the National Program to Rehabilitate and Develop Cambodia (1994), the Triangle
Strategy (1998), and the National Royal Government's Platform on Second Term (1998-2000).
These objectives, aimed at reducing poverty, included: developing rural areas, building human
capacity, and strengthening infrastructure. The SFII was also consistent with the objectives of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which mirrored those of the RGC: enhancing rural
development and natural resources management; improving human resources and reducing
poverty; and supporting critical infrastructure rehabilitation.

The project's primary objective responded to a key immediate constraint to Cambodia's social
and economic development: the substantial backlog of basic investment requirements in
small-scale infrastructure following years of conflict and neglect. The inclusion of other
objectives such as improved donor financing and poverty targeting made the project more
complex. Building on the lessons of SFI, the SFII placed greater emphasis on improving local
participation and sustainability and shifted sectoral allocations into more technically complicated
sectors in which the SFKC had less experience. These changes also increased project complexity
and the demands on the SFKC but were important and appropriate adaptations to the evolving
development of Cambodia.

3.2 Revised Objective:
In May 2001, one year before the expected completion of the SFII, the Bank approved a Flood
Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit (US$10 million equivalent) which provided additional
resources to the SFKC to address emergency needs in rebuilding small-scale infrastructure
damaged in heavy flooding during 1999-2000. Given the similar objectives of the two credits, no
revision to the SFII credit agreement was required.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was comprised of three components. The Subproject Grants component financed
sub-grants for small-scale infrastructure and services subprojects proposed by communities, local
groups, NGOs, and other entities. Eligible subproject types included: irrigation systems, bridges
and culverts, water supply and sanitation systems, schools, vocational training centers and
training, and health centers. The Institutional Support component financed the costs of staffing,


                                                 - 2 -

equipping, operating, training, and assessing the SFKC. Approximately 1% of the credit was left
in the Unallocated component to provide flexibility during implementation.

These components are standard to most social fund projects and were linked directly to the
achievement of SFKC objectives. Design features--particularly the introduction of three new
"programs of change" to improve the technical quality of subprojects, give more attention to
economic analysis in the appraisal of subprojects, and strengthen subproject
sustainability--reflected the findings of technical and beneficiary assessments of SFI as well as
evaluations of Bank experience with social funds in Latin America and Africa. As noted above,
these changes significantly increased demands on the SFKC. Its capacity was to be strengthened
through the hiring of new staff with social development experience, recruitment of a long-term
sustainability advisor, and the creation of a Monitoring and Post Handover unit.

3.4 Revised Components:
No changes were made to the original components of the project. The components of the Flood
Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit mirrored those of the SFII.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. Bank support for the SFII project was justified given:
the substantial backlog of basic infrastructure needs, as evidenced by the accumulation of eligible
subproject applications from SFI totaling US$50 million; the direct linkages with RGC
development priorities and CAS objectives; and the satisfactory performance of SFI. Project
design--including significant changes to the SFKC's structure and operational procedures to
improve local ownership and sustainability, technical quality, cost-effectiveness, and coordination
with other partners--was an appropriate adaptation to evolving country circumstances and
reflected the lessons of experience from SFI. One important innovation was the addition of the
"new coordination mechanism" under which the SFKC could enter into Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) agreements to facilitate co-financing and cooperation arrangements with
NGOs and other development organizations who could stimulate demand for high priority
subprojects in high priority districts. In terms of safeguard policies, although no significant
adverse environmental impacts were identified under SFI, dated covenants in SFII included the
preparation of improved environmental assessment procedures.

Quality at entry could have been strengthened by: a greater emphasis on outcomes, particularly in
terms of project targets; the inclusion of incentives for hiring returning workers from Thailand and
demobilized soldiers, in line with the project's objectives; and the establishment of a coherent
targeting mechanism. Project design also did not include a strategy for the SFKC's exit,
transformation, or handover of responsibilities at the end of the project. In addition, although
both the RGC's development plans and CAS emphasized the importance of strengthening the
capacity of government institutions, the SFII--which was implemented by the SFKC, an
autonomous agency created to manage the Social Fund--did not specifically address these
objectives. However, the decision to create a separate agency rather than work through line
agencies or local governments was appropriate at the time of project preparation given that
national and local government institutions did not have the capacity to address the country's
pressing small-scale infrastructure needs.



                                                  - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of project objectives and outputs is rated as satisfactory. Although the
lack of targets for key performance indicators makes evaluation more difficult, the project
financed numerous beneficiary, technical, and other assessments which provide information on
outcomes and impact and in part compensate for the lack of defined targets.

Regarding the first objective of providing small-scale, community-based social and economic
infrastructure subprojects with emphasis on the poor, the SFII appears to have delivered
substantial benefits. The project financed 1,416 small- to medium-sized economic and social
infrastructure subprojects (total value US$31.5 million) throughout the country, which benefited
over 5 million people according to SFKC estimates. In the Independent Technical and
Beneficiary Assessment (ITBA) completed in late 2004, interviewees reported that subproject
benefits included: increased school enrollment, particularly among girls; safer school
environments; improved access to schools and markets; decreased impacts from flooding;
enhanced trade in agriculture and other local products; and added income from employment
opportunities.

In terms of creating short-term employment opportunities to absorb the increase in
unemployment associated with post-crisis reverse migration of workers from Thailand and the
demobilization of Cambodian army units, the SFKC created nearly 52,000 person-months of
short-term employment, of which approximately 84% was for unskilled labor. The SFKC focused
on providing higher quality infrastructure facilities, which required relatively less labor inputs than
more basic facilities but would be likely to last longer, a key consideration given the vulnerability
of the country's infrastructure to devastating floods. The project did not include special
incentives or provisions for hiring returning workers or former military personnel, and the
backgrounds of employees hired was not tracked. Therefore, the degree to which the project may
have absorbed the increase in unemployment mentioned in the objective was not assessed.

The extent to which SFII strengthened the capacity of communities to implement development
projects and sustain them is more difficult to quantify, but the project appears to have had a
positive impact. The ITBA concluded that community involvement--as measured by time spent
in meetings and donations of land, labor, and materials--increased during SFII and resulted in
high levels of ownership. Community contribution as a percent of total subproject cost averaged
11% over the life of the project, above the 10% agreed at appraisal. In addition, 60% of the
community Project Support Committee (PSC) members interviewed for the ITBA stated that
after implementation of their SFKC subprojects, they went on to participate in other community
development activities, including health promotion and HIV/AIDS awareness, food security
programs, and village action planning. Of this group, over 80% mentioned that they had used
skills they gained through the SFKC experience in other development activities.

In terms of improving donor coordination and financing, the SFKC mobilized almost US$10
million (about 20% of total project financing) at the institutional level from American Assistance
for Cambodia (AAfC) and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). At the



                                                  - 4 -

subproject level, MoU partnership agreements signed with 10 NGOs and donor organizations
raised an additional US$4 million. The ITBA concluded that MoU partners, as intended, helped:
channel resources to some of the most remote and impoverished districts; improve the overall
quality of outputs; and strengthen community capacity building efforts, thereby helping to ensure
the sustainability of facilities financed.

Regarding improving poverty and district targeting, the SFKC did not fully meet its objectives.
Targeting on a per capita basis resulted in a wide distribution of investments throughout the
country (177 out of 183 districts), with nearly 92% of sub-projects in rural areas. However, while
the level of per capita investment was highest in the poorest 10% of districts, the next highest
level was in the second wealthiest decile. Targeting was constrained by insufficient
socio-economic data for certain areas of the country and by lack of a coherent targeting
mechanism, as the SFKC used a set of different and competing prioritization tools. Targeting
improved over time as a result of better procedures and more extensive outreach activities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Subproject Grants. From July 1999 to March 2005, the SFKC completed 1,416 sub-projects
(total value US$31.5 million), including the rehabilitation or construction of 592 schools, 414
bridges and 2,610 culverts, 5,133 wells and 1,290 latrines, and 88 irrigation systems. Over
one-third of these subprojects were implemented under MoU partnerships, in which partner
agencies helped identify local priorities and assist communities in submitting subproject
applications to SFKC. After approval of the subprojects, MoU partners provided field support
for implementation as needed and helped mobilize communities for maintenance of the facilities.

According to the ITBA, improved subproject designs and appraisal and supervision procedures,
combined with stronger community capacity to oversee procurement and construction and
increased contractor performance, resulted in better technical quality of all major subproject types
under SFII. Although quality varied among subproject types, 90% of SFII investments were rated
to be of `fair' to `good' quality. This conclusion was substantiated by other project assessments
which found SFKC subprojects to be of average or above-average technical quality compared to
similar donor- and government-funded programs. Subproject quality was correlated with levels of
beneficiary satisfaction, which were consistently high throughout the project. According to the
ITBA, 90% of respondents indicated that investments addressed the communities' priority
development needs.

Average processing times were long for subproject applications entering the SFKC system
through normal channels, such as directly through communities or local groups. For these
subprojects, the time lag between screening and construction "ground-breaking" averaged 3.73
years, with a maximum of 8.5 years. In contrast, flood rehabilitation applications and applications
for subprojects supported by MoU partnerships received priority treatment and were sent directly
to appraisal after screening, resulting in shorter average lag times of 1.05 and 1.24 years,
respectively. This two-tiered system likely lengthened the time lag for normal applications,
although it should be noted that the SFKC was not fully responsible for the delays. Oftentimes
insufficient information in the applications delayed the appraisal process, and some subprojects
required re-bidding and multiple re-bids to keep the bidding process transparent.



                                                  - 5 -

Institutional Support. With the shift in objectives from SFI to SFII, the SFKC initiated major
changes to its structure, policies, and procedures. Key institutional innovations during design and
implementation included: the creation of a Sustainability Program Unit (SPU) and the hiring and
effective use of a sustainability advisor; recruitment of staff with social development experience;
the establishment of a regional office; and the creation of an Internal Audit Unit (IAU) in response
to transparency concerns. Under this component, the project also financed a number of
beneficiary, technical, procurement, and other assessments which were instrumental in improving
procurement procedures, technical designs and construction standards, capacity building efforts,
and other aspects of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The NPV of the project was not calculated during appraisal or at completion. Standard rate of
return analysis is not readily applicable to a large number of small, demand-driven, and disparate
subprojects. On the benefit side, the SFKC used estimates of potential beneficiaries to calculate
return. For larger economic infrastructure subprojects, relatively simple economic rate of return
calculations were applied. Average subproject costs in current dollars increased during SFII from
about US$13,000 in 1996 to over US$18,200 in 2004, reflecting in part the greater complexity
and size of an increased percentage of rural economic infrastructure subprojects. Operational
costs were contained to the agreed 8% of total project costs, lower than other public agencies and
below the average of social funds included in a recent Bank comparative study (10-13%).

To ensure cost effectiveness, SFKC introduced new cost-effectiveness ratios in the appraisal
process and used a unit cost database (UCD) to calculate unit construction costs across different
regions. The UCD helped keep average unit costs at or significantly below those of similar
investment projects built under other programs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although the SFKC succeeded in building capacity at the community level, its overall institutional
development impact was modest. Through its eligibility criteria, operational procedures,
partnerships, and the shift from direct contracting for civil works to a community-managed
competitive bidding process for all subprojects, the SFKC enhanced community involvement and
ownership and improved community capacity to oversee procurement and construction. The
benefits of this increased capacity appear to have extended to other community development
projects, as described above.

Although capacity building of government agencies was not a project objective, the project could
have been used to influence relevant programs and policy reforms. The SFKC's institutional
development impact was reduced in part by its institutional autonomy, although this autonomy
helped protect the SFKC from political pressures and allowed it more flexibility in making
changes to increase its effectiveness. Due to limited contact and collaboration at the provincial
and national levels, the SFKC had little direct impact on those authorities and line ministries.
Demonstration or "learning-by-doing" effects were restricted by the lack of mechanisms to
introduce SFKC approaches to other agencies and organizations. Despite continuous urging from



                                                  - 6 -

Bank supervision teams, the SFKC did not widely disseminate the lessons learned from its
experience in local development, community capacity building, good governance, and partnerships
until the end of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Flooding in Cambodia during the 1999-2000 rainy season was the worst in 30 years. The Bank
responded in part with a US$10 million supplemental credit to the SFKC which financed,
relatively quickly, the rebuilding of high-priority facilities in 212 communities. The additional
credit justified a one-year extension of the closing date.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Like nearly all Bank-funded projects in Cambodia, the activities of the SFKC and preparation of
SFII suffered delays from July 1997 to December 1998 due to political uncertainties. Retroactive
financing of US$400,000 from a Project Preparation Facility allowed SFKC operations to
continue prior to project effectiveness, albeit at a reduced level. It was not until May 2000--10
months after project effectiveness--when operations again reached the level of activity achieved
during SFI.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In addition to the factors described above, the introduction of new procedures delayed the initial
implementation of SFII and in part necessitated an extension of the closing date to March 2005.
However, these changes were crucial to the achievement of project objectives. In response to
circumstantial evidence of procurement irregularities in mid-2000, the SFKC instituted a
"transparency program" to address any possible risks of corruption, which included: the cessation
of direct contracting and adoption of local shopping procedures for subprojects valued below
US$250,000, establishment of the IAU, and other measures to increase community responsibility
for procurement. A number of approved subprojects had to be re-bid due to unfamiliarity with
the new procedures and more stringent IAU procurement prior reviews, and revised designs and
appraisal and supervision procedures also caused delays. However, these changes helped increase
community ownership and capacity, prevent procurement mismanagement, improve the technical
quality of subprojects, and enhance sustainability.

In terms of partnerships, the SFKC's introduction of MoU agreements with other development
organizations helped facilitate local participation and generate quality sub-project proposals. As
noted in the project's Partnership Assessment (2004), the effectiveness of MoU partnerships
could have been enhanced further by increased awareness of and appreciation for their respective
responsibilities by both the SFKC and partner organizations, consistent and more frequent
communication, and compliance with reporting obligations.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Flood Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit increased Bank support to the SFKC from US$25
million to US$35 million. At project close, the total amount disbursed from the SFII and
Supplemental Credit was US$33.83 million or 97% of the approved total.




                                                     - 7 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall project sustainability is rated as likely. In terms of subproject sustainability, although
maintenance problems plague most development projects in Cambodia, available evidence
suggests that many of the indicators for continued sustainability are in place for SFKC
subprojects: in the ITBA, nearly 90% of SFII subprojects were assessed to be of good or fair
quality; over 90% of community respondents indicated that the subprojects addressed the
community's priority development needs and that they were satisfied or very satisfied with the
outcome; community contributions exceeded the required percentage of subproject costs; and
utilization of assets is reportedly high. The ITBA found significant evidence of
community-initiated maintenance and repairs, particularly for school and rural road subprojects.
Although the SFKC did not specifically require the creation of a maintenance committee, over
60% of community PSC members reported that maintenance committees had been established for
their subprojects. In addition, by 2002, the percentage of beneficiary respondents who believed
that subproject maintenance should be the responsibility of the community had increased to nearly
90%. The sustainability of MoU subprojects appears to be even more likely given the added
attention to community mobilization by MoU partners, the higher prevalence of maintenance
committees, and strong community support for undertaking maintenance.

Given its mandate as a transitional organization, the sustainability of the SFKC as an institution is
given less weight in the project rating than the sustainability of benefits created. The SFKC was
established by Royal Decree as a temporary institution to respond to the country's pressing
emergency and reconstruction needs, filling a major gap at a time when national and local
government capacity to provide small-scale infrastructure was still low. The SFKC's current
support from other sources will be completed by the end of 2005. Regarding the approaches,
procedures, and systems developed by the SFKC, the Social Fund experience appears to have had
some indirect influence on similar programs, but no mechanisms were put in place to facilitate and
ensure such transfers, as discussed above.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The explicit intent of Bank support to the SFKC was to help Cambodia in the initial phase of
rebuilding infrastructure at a time when implementation capabilities were weak. Notably, the
previous CAS did not envision continued funding for the SFKC and stated that "the next
generation of Bank projects would be implemented through, and help strengthen the capacity of
line ministries." No future Bank funding has been requested for the SFKC.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The appropriate
skills mix of the Bank's task team and the continuity of its team leader, lead consultant, and other
members who had been involved in SFI contributed to the efficient preparation and appraisal of
the project. The Bank team worked closely with the SFKC to adapt the design of the SFII to the
evolving country context and to reflect lessons learned from SFI implementation and other
operations. At the appraisal stage, the Bank team focused on providing needed technical



                                                  - 8 -

assistance for the "programs of change" to be introduced under SFII to increase the SFKC's
effectiveness and impact. Bank support to the SFKC also helped mobilize over US$15 million in
co-financing, and the Bank's approval of Project Preparation Facility funds helped sustain the
SFKC's operations until the effectiveness of the SFII.

As suggested above, Bank performance could have been improved by: placing greater emphasis
on outcomes and impact, particularly in developing targets for key indicators; building in
mechanisms to ensure that the valuable procedures, systems, and lessons learned from the Social
Fund would be disseminated and transferred; and specifying whether or how Bank support to the
SFKC would be phased out by the end of the project. It should be acknowledged that at the time
the SFII was prepared, the Bank in general was placing much less emphasis on indicators and
mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation, compared to the strong focus the Bank now has on
measuring outcomes and impact.

7.2 Supervision:
With intensive supervision and their familiarity with the different stages of project implementation,
Bank task team members were able to identify and effectively deal with problems arising during
implementation. When complaints concerning the management of direct contracting were raised,
the task team recommended the introduction of measures to improve the competitiveness and
transparency of procurement that were implemented successfully by the SFKC. Bank missions
consistently conducted field visits and emphasized financial stewardship and administration
through audits of statements of expenditure and procurement documentation. Support was also
provided in the form of "refresher" training for staff of the implementing unit. Management
support was provided by the Country Director as well as sector managers who communicated
with counterparts and commented on project status reports.

Supervision reporting would have benefited from consistent tracking of performance indicators
and their use in justifying development objective ratings. Few PAD indicators were monitored
during implementation, and even those indicators were tracked sporadically. In addition, Bank
staff could have looked for opportunities to use the Social Fund experience to influence emerging
developments at the local level--most notably, the RGC's decentralization reforms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Bank staff worked unusually closely with
counterparts and used design and supervision to help the SFKC introduce needed reforms and
improve project implementation. The task team also consistently tracked adherence to the new
rigorous procedures for promoting transparency. Although a series of assessments was carried
out under the project, increased attention to monitoring outcomes and evaluating impact was
needed during design and supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Based on the achievements of SFI, Government requested additional support for the SFKC. The
Ministry of Economy and Finance was engaged in the preparation process but delegated detailed
design decisions to the SFKC. The SFKC demonstrated continued ownership throughout project
preparation, for example in undertaking beneficiary and technical assessments of SFI to help



                                                 - 9 -

inform changes that would increase its effectiveness for SFII.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The risk of political interference in SFKC operations identified during appraisal did not
materialize. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF) continued to delegate all financial
management responsibilities to the SFKC and did not exercise its prior review procedure for
SFKC procurement. Provision of counterpart funds--comprised largely of the required
community contributions for sub-projects--was timely.

However, the RGC did not fully comply with its responsibilities regarding the governance of the
SFKC. By statute, the SFKC's Board was to be comprised of 11 members representing a
cross-section of stakeholders, yet all members were representatives of the two major political
parties. Although it was to meet every six months, the Board convened only three times between
1995 and 2004 and played a minimal role in establishing and approving operating policies and
procedures and organizational changes. Executive Committee meetings, during which subproject
approvals were ratified, were attended by three members of the ruling party and one member of
the main opposition party, contributing to perceptions of party influence over the decision-making
process.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The high degree of continuity among SFKC management and staff during SFI and SFII, combined
with the effective use of technical assistance and a series of assessments, contributed to successful
project implementation. The SFKC used its Sustainability Programming Unit (SPU), created
under SFII, to conduct activities which fostered community ownership and capacity. In response
to allegations of interference in the procurement process, the SFKC adopted difficult reforms to
help ensure transparency, including the creation of the IAU and disciplinary action against several
staff members. Extensive photographic documentation of subprojects helped improve contractor
performance and provides a lasting record of SFKC activities.

Given the number of actors involved in the local development process, the SFKC could have
placed more emphasis on communication and coordination with stakeholders at all levels.
Although the SFKC held a well-attended workshop in late 2004 to share its experiences, the
SFKC's impact could have been augmented by earlier and regular dissemination of lessons
learned, participation in government policy forums and sectoral working groups, and the
establishment of mechanisms to transfer knowledge.

Greater attention to pipeline management was also needed. The SFII inherited a backlog of 3,800
sub-projects from SFI which were pending review and appraisal. Although the SFKC conducted
a revalidation exercise for pending applications and stopped accepting new applications in 2002,
the pipeline still contained over 3,000 eligible applications at the end of SFII. Despite the
backlog, the SFKC did not return or refer pending applications to other organizations, even with
strong urging by Bank supervision missions, and it did not communicate consistently with
subproject applicants regarding the status of their applications.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although communication and coordination with other Government agencies and stakeholders



                                                 - 10 -

could have been strengthened, the Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The
Borrower demonstrated a high degree of ownership, and the SFKC was effective in managing
project activities and implementing difficult changes.

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project include:

       Weigh short-term and long-term needs in a post-conflict situation. Post-conflict
countries often face the urgent challenge of rebuilding critical infrastructure and restoring basic
services. If government capacity is low, it may not be possible to work through existing
government institutions or build the necessary capacity quickly enough to deliver support at a
time when needs are greatest. Such circumstances may warrant a project design that focuses
more on addressing pressing needs than on building longer-term institutional capacity.

       Tackle transparency issues systematically. An effective and transparent procurement
process requires: well-defined procedures, adequate training, rigorous internal monitoring,
regular independent external evaluations, and appropriate and enforceable penalties and a
commitment to invoke them. Continuity of Bank task teams, field-based task team members, and
frequent site visits made possible by the decentralization of Bank staff help facilitate a deep
knowledge of country context and project activities, close working relationships, and rapid
response times, which in turn increase the effectiveness of supervision.

       Monitor outcomes and evaluate impact. Project design should focus on developing
results-based monitoring and evaluation systems. To assess development effectiveness, input and
output indicators (e.g., amounts disbursed and number of subprojects completed) should be
supplemented by outcome indicators (e.g., subproject sustainability and benefits). Targets should
be set and tracked consistently throughout implementation. The schedule of evaluations should
include not only technical, procurement, and beneficiary assessments which inform procedural
changes during implementation but also an impact evaluation to determine whether the project has
achieved significant and measurable improvement in people's lives. For projects benefiting a large
proportion of the population, the possibility of using existing national-level instruments such as
household surveys to monitor impact should also be explored.

       Find mechanisms to ensure appropriate targeting. Projects aimed at supporting poor
communities and specific beneficiary groups should have a coherent targeting mechanism in place.
For a large-scale, nationwide project, one possible approach would be to link the project to
national-level targeting efforts. National-level poverty maps, for example, could be used to help
identify priority geographic areas for project support. In addition, indicators that measure
whether project benefits are reaching the target groups should be developed and monitored
closely to facilitate any necessary adjustments during implementation.

       Build capacity through decentralization. Decentralizing project responsibilities such as
procurement can be an effective means of building local capacity. While the initial stages can be
challenging and potentially costly, empowering communities to manage key tasks can bring
longer-term benefits in enabling them to handle their own development beyond the project itself.



                                                 - 11 -

       Use partnerships to increase effectiveness. Partnerships with other development
organizations can be used to facilitate local participation, improve reach to poorer and more
remote communities, and help ensure sustainability. Such partnerships must be maintained
actively, with a clear delineation of roles and responsibilities, recognition of respective
contributions, and regular communication to develop trust and respect among partners and foster
longer-term collaboration.

       Communicate. Communication with all stakeholders is critical to achieving sustained
impact by: promoting understanding of social fund objectives and activities; developing effective
partnerships; and encouraging the adoption of social fund approaches, practices, and lessons
learned. Regular and consistent dialogue requires resources and a commitment to external
relationship building.

       Plan for handover. To help ensure lasting institutional development impact, social fund
projects should include mechanisms to ensure that the valuable processes, skills, and systems
which are developed can be adopted by and/or passed on to national and local institutions. Such
transfer mechanisms are particularly important in cases where the social fund enjoys a high degree
of autonomy and should include channels for effective dialogue, data sharing and integration, and
technical assistance and training.

       Seek opportunities to extend impact. Although day-to-day implementation challenges
may demand immediate attention, larger country context issues relevant to the project should be
closely tracked and accommodated as needed to increase project impact and sustainability. Social
fund experience holds valuable lessons for decentralization and local development, in particular,
and project activities can help foster such efforts if appropriately designed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is an excerpt from the Executive Summary of the Borrower's ICR. The full document can
be found in the project files.

The Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) was established in 1995 as an autonomous
agency to assist, based on a demand-driven approach, in the rapid rehabilitation of social and
economic infrastructure facilities. Since its inception, the SFKC has been an entirely locally
managed agency with minimal non-Cambodian technical and managerial inputs. The second
phase of SFKC operations (SFII) commenced in July 1999 and completed by March 2005. The
accomplishments of SFII, reviewed in conjunction with Social Fund I (SFI) experiences, were:

       SFKC's experience illustrates that institutional autonomy eliminated many of the
bureaucratic constraints, as sub-projects were appraised and approved months ahead of normal
government channels, completing more civil works, making extensive use of decentralized
methods of management, and the development of technical supervision and skills of private
contractors, than other agencies were able to do in the same period. However, institutional
independence did not necessarily lead to community-based, demand-driven projects from the



                                                 - 12 -

poorer and the most vulnerable sections of society, because demand was first expressed by
communities with the skills necessary to prepare proposals (e.g., middle poor and marginally
non-poor communities) and gain access to the fund and further, at times this demand was
expressed by local elite or contractors themselves.

       The SFKC has gained significant levels of internal efficiency as it has been able to deliver
services at a lower overhead (about 8% of the total) cost compared to other public agencies and
evidence shows a comparatively lower per-unit cost for infrastructure facilities built, with savings
as high as 20% in specific cases. As the recent work of SFKC in providing rehabilitation
assistance to communities affected by flooding illustrates, the social fund model has been effective
in appraising, approving and completing civil works within a reasonable time-frame, while
maintaining low per-unit project costs, and in doing so, SFKC has shown its ability to respond
quickly and efficiently to the needs of the beneficiary target groups.

       The SFKC's demand-driven approach and targeting methods have yielded mixed results.
In general, sub-projects have served the middle-poor and underserved communities in Cambodia.
As SFKC's experience proved, the success of this approach demanded considerable
pre-investment in outreach, training, and technical assistance, without which SFII may have
missed critical sections of their intended target groups.

       Available information indicates that SFKC sub-projects could generate modest levels of
short-term employment for the local population, and most of the local employment was for
unskilled labor at wages equal to the minimum wage in the region. With a total expenditure for
labor of not more than 8% of the investment, the labor component was not sufficient to move
people out of poverty. Additionally, there is a persistent contradiction between building quality
projects and using local labor. Thus, the impact of social fund sub-projects in generating
wage-employment is necessarily modest, because their emphasis on medium-term project facilities
that may not be labor-intensive. There is evidence, however, that where the social fund has
worked with partner agencies, which pursue labor-intensive projects, higher levels of short-term
employment have been created.

       As several independent assessments have noted, the lack of adequate community
participation in the design or management of social fund projects, particularly in procurement and
contracting was minimized through decentralized, community-managed contracting methodology.
However, it should be acknowledged that the influence of external sources in the selection of
contractors for public works contracts is rife in Cambodia. Local communities often have little
say in selection procedures and are in fact generally overwhelmed with the new role and
responsibility. This, in some cases, had a knock-on effect on sustainability of the facilities created.
These issues were much greater in the first phase of social fund projects and were addressed in the
second phase by introducing new tasks in the project cycle and including provision of greater
support to the training of communities in development and management principles and
community-managed contracts.

       The partnership portfolio of SFKC, implemented through the MoU arrangements,
enhanced community participation, assumed community responsibility into project



                                                 - 13 -

implementation, improved the quality of SFII outputs, and increased service delivery to
traditionally marginalized groups.

Overall, the work of SFKC demonstrated the will of the government to combat internal strife and
regain the trust of civil society, had a favorable impact on education, and generated a positive
capital flow in the rural areas and modest levels of short-term employment for the local
population. The SFII coincided with a return to political stability which gave impetus to a new
range of development work at the national, provincial and local levels. This phase was oriented
more towards medium to long-term development, with sustainability, eligibility criteria for
sub-projects types and sectors, poverty targeting, project quality, design standards, operation and
maintenance receiving more attention. However, SFKC's visibility aroused misplaced
expectations and experienced a complex transition from the rehabilitation of infrastructure in the
emergency phase to compensating for the continued structural deficiencies in the public
administration.

Clearly, the social fund model has many strong points and weaknesses, as often happens with
development programs whether they are growth-oriented or equity-oriented. There is nothing
singularly wrong within SFKC. However, it was not a panacea for all the problems that Cambodia
had as it gradually emerged from years of civil strife and struggled with many difficult
development issues. The substantive issue is whether the SFKC approach is a worthwhile
endeavor on balance.

Given the institutional experience and technical competence which has been gained, the social
fund model can place greater emphasis, in the medium to longer-term, on the public works
component. Working in coordination with other labor-intensive sub-projects, it will have a
significant impact with regard to revitalization of the local economy, thus in reality contributing to
the poverty alleviation policies and the Triangular Strategies of the Royal Government of
Cambodia.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Inputs and comments from co-financiers have been incorporated into the above Bank assessment
of the project. Co-financiers did not provide specific comments on the ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Inputs and comments from MoU partners have been incorporated into the above Bank assessment
of the project. Detailed feedback is provided in the Partnership Study 2004, which can be found
in the project files.

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Provincial targeting coefficient                Provincial allocations (US$ m):                 Provincial allocations (US$ m):
                                                Banteay MeanChey 1.1                            Banteay MeanChey 0.8
                                                Battambang 1.4                                  Battambang 1.2
                                                Kampong Cham 2.8                                Kampong Cham 4.3
                                                Kampong Chhnang 0.8                             Kampong Chhnang 1.1
                                                Kampong Speu 1.1                                Kampong Speu 2.1
                                                Kampong Thom 1.2                                Kampong Thom 0.7
                                                Kampot 1.1                                      Kampot 1.4
                                                Kandal 1.9                                      Kandal 2.7
                                                Koh Kong 0.2                                    Koh Kong 0.7
                                                Kratie 0.4                                      Kratie 0.6
                                                Mondolkiri 0.08                                 Mondolkiri 0.1
                                                Phnom Penh 0.8                                  Phnom Penh 3.1

Subprojects in priority districts as percentage not available                                   Percentage of subprojects in
of total approvals                                                                              post-conflict/reconciliation areas: 23.6%

Man-months of employment generated by           Total man-months of employment generated Total man-months of employment generated:
SFII activities                                 (Jan-Aug 2004): total 4,290 (skilled 1,118;     total 51,907 (skilled 8,316; unskilled 43,591)
                                                unskilled 3,172)
Co-financing as percentage of total value of    not available                                   MoU partnership subprojects value as
subprojects                                                                                     percentage of total subprojects value: 30.5%

Proportion of total approvals with community not available                                      not available
contribution delivered at ground breaking

Community contribution as percentage of         10% (target agreed at appraisal)                11%
total value of sub-projects

Total community contribution as percentage      not available                                   not available
of applicant counterpart

Number of handover subprojects with             Percentage of total subprojects visited in year Percentage of school subprojects visited with
maintenance problems over total number of       2002 and 2003 with maintenance problems         maintenance problems during year 1 of use
past handover projects visited, by age of       during year 1 of use (post construction):       (post construction): 15%; during year 2 of
sub-project, by sector                          12%; during year 2 of use: 14%                  use: 30%
                                                                                                Percentage of rural road subprojects visited
                                                                                                with maintenance problems during year 1 of
                                                                                                use (post construction): 10%; during year 2
                                                                                                of use: 20%
                                                                                                Percentage of water supply subprojects
                                                                                                visited with maintenance problems during
                                                                                                year 1 of use (post construction): 25%

Economic infrastructure subprojects             Percentage of subproject approvals under        Percentage of bridge and culvert, community
approved as percentage of total approvals       SFII (as of March 2004): 56.2%                  water supply, and irrigation subproject
                                                Percentage of subproject approvals under        approvals: 45%
                                                supplemental credit (as of March 2004):
                                                61.6%

Notes:
1. Unless otherwise indicated, the totals provided in this table include both Social Fund II and the Supplemental
Credit.
2. Because no projections were provided in PSRs, the "Projected in last PSR" column reflects actual information
from the last PSR if available.
3. For indicators that were not tracked during implementation, actual/latest estimates of similar or related
indicators are provided. Therefore, projections and actual/latest estimates may not be comparable across columns.




                                                                   - 15 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Average unit cost of sub-projects completed; Average unit costs by subproject type (US$): Average unit costs by subproject type (US$):
number of infrastructure, agriculture,          Commune Clinics 16,109                    Irrigation Systems 31,439
education and training, health, social affairs, Irrigation Systems 30,488                 Schools 23,928
capacity building, equipment and other          Latrines 1,912                            Rural Roads 20,135
subprojects completed                           Primary Schools 22,298                    Water and Sanitation 9,643
                                                Rural Roads 20,782
                                                Vocational Training Centers 17,755        Number of subprojects completed by
                                                Water Supply 5,320                        subproject type:
                                                                                          Agriculture 77
                                                                                          Education 607
                                                                                          Health 9
                                                                                          Social Affairs 2
                                                                                          Transport 386
                                                                                          Water and Sanitation 335


Time lag between subproject cycle steps         not available                             For regular subproject applications: 3.73
                                                                                          years between screening and construction
                                                                                          groundbreaking
                                                                                          For flood rehabilitation and MoU subproject
                                                                                          applications: 1.05 years between screening
                                                                                          and construction groundbreaking


Average subproject technical quality            not available                             Percentage of subprojects rated "fair" to
                                                                                          "good" quality by independent technical and
                                                                                          beneficiary assessment: 90%


1End of project
Notes:
1. Unless otherwise indicated, the totals provided in this table include both Social Fund II and the Supplemental
Credit.
2. Because no projections were provided in PSRs, the "Projected in last PSR" column reflects actual information
from the last PSR if available.
3. For indicators that were not tracked during implementation, actual/latest estimates of similar or related
indicators are provided. Therefore, projections and actual/latest estimates may not be comparable across columns.




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 Appraisal             Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                                  Estimate                Estimate          Appraisal
                               Component                                         US$ million             US$ million
 A. Sub-Projects                                                                      24.46                    22.96             93.87
 B. Institutional Support                                                               3.00                    2.62             92.25
 C. Unallocated                                                                         0.31                    0.00                 0

 Total Baseline Cost                                                                  27.77                    25.58
                                 Total Project Costs                                  27.77                    25.58
                        Total Financing Required                                      27.77                    25.58
Notes:
1. This table provides Project Cost by Component for the Cambodia Social Fund II Project.
2. Under Appraisal Estimate, the Total Project Cost of US$27.77 million includes Government financing/co-financing/contingencies.
Bank financing
for the project was US$25.00 million (equivalent to 17,900,000 XDR).
3. Under Actual/Latest Estimate, the Total Project Cost of US$25.58 million is the total actual cost including Government
financing/co-financing/contingencies.


                                                                                    Appraisal             Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                                    Estimate                 Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                                                  US$ million               US$ million
A. Sub-Projects                                                                         9.00                    8.73             97.00
B. Institutional Support                                                                1.10                    1.96             178.19
C. Unallocated                                                                          0.00                    0.00               0
Total Baseline Cost                                                                     10.1                   10.69
                                    Total Project Costs                                10.10                   10.69
Notes:
1. This table provides Project Cost by Component for the Flood Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit.
2. Under Appraisal Estimate, the Total Project Cost of US$10.10 million includes Government financing/co-financing/contingencies.
Bank financing
for the project was US$10.00 million (equivalent to 7,900,000 XDR).
3. Under Actual/Latest Estimate, the Total Project Cost of US$10.69 million is the total actual cost including Government
financing/co-financing/contingencies.




                                                                - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       1
                                                            Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                    ICB                NCB                       2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                   Other
1. Works                                     0.00               1.16                18.03              0.00             19.19
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)             (19.81)             (0.00)           (19.81)
2. Goods                                     0.00               0.15                 1.48              0.00              1.63
                                            (0.00)             (0.10)               (1.10)            (0.00)           (1.20)
3. Services                                  0.00               0.00                 2.05              0.00              2.05
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.59)            (0.00)           (0.59)
4. Miscellaneous                             0.31               0.00                 1.82              0.00              2.13
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)               (1.62)            (0.00)           (1.62)
5. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00                 0.00              0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                             0.00               0.00                 0.00              0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                     0.31               1.31                23.38              0.00             25.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.10)             (23.12)             (0.00)           (23.22)
Note:   This table provides Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for the Cambodia Social Fund II Project.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
     Expenditure Category                                      Procurement Method         1                          Total Cost
                                              ICB               NCB               Other   2          N.B.F.
1. Works                                      0.00               0.00                8.34              0.00              8.34
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)              (8.49)            (0.00)            (8.49)
2. Goods                                      0.00               0.00                0.15              0.00              0.15
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.37)            (0.00)            (0.37)
3. Services                                   0.00               0.00                0.88              0.00              0.88
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.70)            (0.00)            (0.70)

4. Miscellaneous                              0.00               0.00                0.65              0.00              0.65
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)              (1.06)            (0.00)            (1.05)

   Total                                      0.00               0.00               10.02              0.00             10.02
                                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (10.61)             (0.00)           (10.61)

Note:   This table provides Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for the Flood Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                             - 18 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                 Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                        Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    IDA           Govt.        CoF.           IDA           Govt.       CoF.       IDA    Govt.   CoF.
A. Sub-Projects                    22.01                       2.45          20.76                      2.19       94.3           89.4
B. Institutional Support            2.68           0.32                       2.45          0.17                   91.4    53.1
C. Unallocated                      0.31                                      0.00                                 0.0
Total                              25.00           0.32        2.45          23.22          0.17        2.19       92.9    53.1   89.4

    Note:    This table provides Project Financing by Component for the Cambodia Social Fund II Project.



        Component                        Appraisal Estimate                  Actual / Latest Estimate           Percentage of Appraisal

                                   IDA           Govt.       Cof.           IDA         Govt.        Cof.        IDA    Govt.    Cof.
A. Sub-Projects                         9.00                                   8.73                                 97
B. Institutional Support                1.00           0.1                     1.88          0.08                  188        80
C. Unallocated                          0.00                                   0.00                                 0.0
Total                                 10.00            0.1                    10.61          0.08                 106.1       80
    Note:    This table provides Project Financing by Component for the Flood Rehabilitation Supplemental Credit.




                                                                 - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic rate of return was not calculated for this project at appraisal, nor was it calculated at closure.




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12 Feb 1999              7    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                            COMMUNITY
                                            PARTICIPATION (1)
                                            FINANCE AND
                                            ACCOUNTING (1)
                                            PROCUREMENT (1)
                                            SOCIAL FUND
                                            OPERATIONS (2)
                                            OPERATIONS AND
                                            BUDGET (1)

 Supervision
              2 Dec 1999               3    PROGRAM TEAM                     S               S
                                            LEADER (1)
                                            TECHNICAL (1)
                                            SUSTAINABILITY (1)
              26 June 2000             5    TASK LEADER (1)                  U               S
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (2)
                                            PRINCIPAL PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              7 Sep 2000               3    TASK MANAGER (1)                 U               S
                                            EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
                                            OFFICER (1)
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              12 Dec 2000              4    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            SUSTAINABILITY (1)
              25 April 2001            3    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
                                            SOCIAL SECTOR SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              14 Aug 2001              4    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
                                            FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
              24 Jan 2002              3    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)




                                             - 21 -

                                                          FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
                11 Oct 2002                          4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S    S
                                                          PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
                                                          FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
                                                          PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
                22 May 2003                          7    MISSION LEADER (1)                   S    S
                                                          SOCIAL PROTECTION (2)
                                                          PROCUREMENT (2)
                                                          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                          SPECIALIST (1)
                                                          PROCUREMENT AND
                                                          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                          (1)
                4 Dec 2003                        N/A     N/A                                  S    S
                8 Mar 2004                           7    MISSION LEADER (1)                   S    S
                                                          SOCIAL PROTECTION,
                                                          IMPLEMENTATION (1)
                                                          SOCIAL PROTECTION (1)
                                                          PROCUREMENT (2)
                                                          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                          (1)
                                                          PROCUREMENT AND
                                                          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                          (1)
                22 Sep 2004                       N/A     N/A                                  S    S

 ICR
                16 Dec 2004                         4      MISSION LEADER (1)                  S    S
                                                           PROCUREMENT (1)
                                                           FINANCIAL
                                                           MANAGEMENT (1)
                                                           IMPLEMENTATION (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                N/A                          133.67
  Supervision                                          85.1                         422.19
  ICR
  Total                                                N/A                          555.86
No. of Staff weeks and Actual expenses for Supervision and ICR stages are combined.




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires and PSRs:

     Appraisal/Negotiations mission Aide Memoire and PSR - February 12, 1999
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - July 2, 1999
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - December 2, 1999
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - June 26, 2000
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - September 7, 2000
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - December 12, 2000
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - April 25, 2001
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - August 14, 2001
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - January 24, 2002
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - October 11, 2002
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - May 22, 2003
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - December 4, 2003
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - March 8, 2004
     Supervision mission Aide Memoire and PSR - September 22, 2004
     Supervision/ICR mission Aide Memoire and PSR - December 16, 2004

Assessments

     Beneficiary Assessment Report - Marilou Pantua-Juanito, December 2000
     Independent Technical and Beneficiary Assessment - Robert Deutsch and Peter Feldman,
      October 2004
     Independent Impact Assessment - Robert Deutsch, 2002
     Institutional Assessment (Final Report) - David Ayres, November 2004
     Partnership Study (Final Report) - Mercedes Logarta et al, June 2004
     Procurement Assessment 2003 - Declan O'Leary and Associates, June 2004
     SFII Irrigation Assessment - Aruna Technology, December 2002
     Sustainability Training End of Mission Report - Marilou P. Juanito, May-July 2001
     Technical Assessment Mid-Term Report - Declan O'Leary and Associates,
      November 2000
     Technical Assessment of 120 Projects - Ko ter Hofstede and Ou Sochivy, July 1998
     Technical Assessment Report - De Spiegler Associates, February 1997

Bank systems:

     Integrated Controller's Systems: disbursement information
     SAP: budget information

Project documents:

     Development Credit Agreement of Cambodia Social Fund II Project - April 19, 1999
     Fund Agreement of Cambodia Social Fund II Project - May 27, 1999
     Minutes of Negotiations of Cambodia Social Fund II Project - February 17, 1999


                                             - 25 -

      Project Agreement of Cambodia Social Fund II Project - April 19, 1999
      Project Appraisal Document of Cambodia Social Fund II Project - March 3, 1999
      Staff Appraisal Report Cambodia Social Fund Project - May 11, 1995

World Bank Documents:

      Assessment of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      Country Assistance Strategy - January 28, 1997
      Country Assistance Strategy - February 7, 2000
      Cambodia Country Assistance Evaluation (OED) - November 16, 2000
      Cambodia Poverty Assessment - November 22, 1999
      CPPR Mission (May 13-21) report (SF extract)
      Memorandum to the President for Supplemental Credit
      IAD Report on an Audit of Procurement of Goods, Works and Consultants in
       EAP - March 4, 2002
      Implementation Completion Report for Social Fund I Project - February 28, 2001
      Poverty Alleviation through Geographical Targeting: How Much Does Disaggregation
       Help?
      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Report and Joint Staff Assessment -
       August 17, 2004
      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint Staff Assessment - January 22, 2003
      QAG Assessment of Bank Supervision Quality during FY1998
      World Bank Group in Cambodia: World for a Cambodia Free of Poverty

Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia

      SFKC National Workshop (November 11, 2004) - Fostering Local Development and
       Reaching out to Communities: Experiences of the SFKC
      SFKC A Report for the Period July 1999 to October 2000
      SFKC Annual Report of Development Credit Implementation No. 2739KH on Year 1998
      SFKC Finance and Administration Manual SFI - September 1999
      SFKC Finance and Administration Manual SFII - July 1999
      SFKC Finance and Administration and O & D Manual for Regional Offices -
       February 2000
      SFKC First Semester Report 1999 of DC Implementation No. 2739KH - 1999
      SFKC Implementation Completion Report (Phase I: 1995-1999) - April 2000
      SFKC Operations Manual SFI - November 1995
      SFKC Operations Manual Social Fund Phase II - July 1999
      SFKC Project Overview (blue covered publication  undated)
      SFKC Promoting Community Participation and Sustainability in SF Projects - March 2000
      SFKC SFII First Semester Report - July 2004
      SFKC SFII Mid-Term Report on July 1999-June 2001
      SFKC SFII Report Project Implementation of DCA No. 3179KH on July 1999-July 2000
      SFKC SFII Third Quarter Report 2001
      Staffing Plan for 2004



                                             - 26 -

    The Work of the Social Fund in Cambodia: A Review of Experiences and Options
     for the Future

Other

    Commune Councils and Civil Society - January 2004




                                         - 27 -

- 28 -

