Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3179 KH
Project Agreement
(Second Social Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE SOCIAL FUND OF THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
Dated April 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3179-KH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the "Association") and SOCIAL FUND OF THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "SFKC").
WHEREAS: (A) By the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Kingdom of Cambodia (the "Borrower") and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,900,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SFKC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (B) SFKC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of SFKC
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) SFKC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with suitably qualified and experienced management 
and personnel in adequate numbers, and in accordance with the provisions of the Royal 
Decree and the Statutes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Association and SFKC shall otherwise agree, SFKC shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) SFKC shall enter into the Fund Agreement with the Borrower, 
whereby the Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the Credit available, promptly 
and without delay, to SFKC on a non-reimbursable grant basis, all under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include 
the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
SFKC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Fund Agreement and 
shall exercise its rights under the Fund Agreement in such a manner so as to protect 
the interests of SFKC and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit and the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, SFKC shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Fund Agreement, 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) SFKC undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-grants shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
SFKC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project financed 
by a Sub-grant in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and 
of SFKC; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the corresponding 
Sub-grant Agreement; and (iii) further the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit and achievement of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) At the request of the Association, SFKC shall exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and the Fund Agreement, and such other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the Project.
(b)
SFKC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SFKC of its 
obligations under this Agreement or under the Fund Agreement, or with the achievement 
of the objectives of the Royal Decree and the Statutes.
Section 2.05. (a) SFKC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SFKC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and SFKC, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with SFKC on said plan.
Section 2.06. SFKC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate business practices.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SFKC shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and to reflect in accordance with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and to 
register the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
SFKC shall:
(i)
have records referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, its 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) and records and 
accounts for its Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited in 
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, SFKC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable the Borrower, not later than July 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, SFKC shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of SFKC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
Page  4
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly notify SFKC 
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SFKC:
Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
No. 113 Street 214
7 Makara, Boueng Pralit
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SFKC may be 
taken or executed by its General Director, or such other person or persons any such 
General Director shall designate in writing, and SFKC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative
SOCIAL FUND OF THE INGDOM
    OF CAMBODIA
By  /s/ Keat Chhon 
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
General and Institutional Matters
1.
SFKC shall, until completion of the Project, maintain a General Director, whose 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, to be 
responsible for its day-to-day management and administration, and maintain staff and 
other requisite resources as shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall take 
all measures necessary to enable said General Director and staff to undertake the 
overall day-to-day supervision and coordination of the Project.
2.
SFKC shall: 
(a)
prepare and submit work programs, budgets and reports and fully cooperate 
and participate in the Project annual reviews and mid-term review; 
(b)
provide all relevant information required for the proper monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; and 
(c)
promptly implement said work programs.
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, SFKC shall: 
(a)
maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with performance indicators agreed upon with the Borrower and 
the Association, the progress achieved in carrying out the Project;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) a monthly report on the status of the 
Project; (ii) not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning in Fiscal Year 
2000, an annual report summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried 
out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above in respect of the preceding Fiscal year, and 
setting forth proposed measures, as indicated by said monitoring and evaluation 
activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and (iii) not later than June 
30, 2001, a mid-term report setting forth any proposed measures, as indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and  
(c)
exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of sub-paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all measures 
in relation thereto as shall have been agreed between the Association and SFKC. 
Operational Provisions
4.
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, SFKC 
shall at all times carry out its operations in accordance with the provisions of the 
Administrative Manual and Operational Manual, which shall, in the case of the 
Operational Manual, include provisions to the following effect: 
(i)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (A) no single 
Sub-grant shall exceed the equivalent of $250,000 or 90 percent of 
the total cost of the Sub-project, whichever is less, and (B) the 
Applicant’s contribution to the cost of the Sub-project shall be 
not less than 10 percent of the total cost of the Sub-project; 
(ii)
no Sub-project shall be considered for approval unless Applicant, 
Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency thereof has provided a 
plan, acceptable to SFKC, for the proper operation and maintenance 
of the Sub-project, upon its completion; and  
(iii)
the proceeds of a Sub-grant shall not be used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on or in respect of eligible expenditures relating 
to a Sub-project, or any part thereof.
(b)
SFKC shall revise its Administrative Manual and Operational Manual to 
take account of the specific needs and priorities of the Project and, in particular, 
in the case of the Operational Manual, to: 
Page  6
(i) 
integrate and update the Guidelines for Resettlement and 
Compensation, specify the policies and procedures applicable to 
cooperative arrangements with ministries and agencies of the 
Borrower, and with bilateral and multilateral donor agencies 
referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, and outline a set of 
guiding principles designed to target poor or otherwise 
under-served communities in accordance with paragraph 9 of this 
Schedule; and 
(ii)
provide for the introduction of the sustainability, and improved 
technical and economic appraisal, programs referred to in 
paragraph 6 of this Schedule.
(c)
Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, SFKC shall 
not, without the prior written approval of the Association, amend or waive any of the 
provisions of the Administrative Manual and Operational Manual, if the effect of such 
amendment or waiver is to revise, vary or otherwise modify any provision thereof 
relating to: (i) Sub-project types or eligibility criteria; (ii) Sub-project cost 
limits; (iii) maximum contract amounts that can be awarded to any single Sub-project 
Implementing Agency on a direct contracting basis; (iv) deadlines for the Borrower to 
provide its no-objection or reasons for objection in respect of any proposed 
Sub-project; or (v) the threshold for prior review of Sub-projects by the Association. 
5.
(a) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, SFKC shall enter into 
cooperative arrangements with ministries and agencies of the Borrower, and with 
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies, to achieve the purposes of the Royal Decree 
and the Statutes.
(b) 
Except with the prior approval of the Association, SFKC shall not enter 
into any cooperative or other arrangement involving the use of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or pertaining thereto, with other ministries and agencies of the Borrower, or 
any bilateral and multilateral donor agencies. 
6.
SFKC shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, 2000, furnish to the Association for its review 
and approval, a detailed proposal for the introduction of:  
(i) 
a sustainability program designed to provide new procedures and 
policies, and a revised institutional framework, to increase 
community participation in, and local ownership of, Sub-projects, 
and improve the operation and maintenance performance record of 
such Sub-projects after completion thereof; and  
(ii) 
an improved technical and economic appraisal program, including 
improved operational procedures, technical design and 
implementation quality of Sub-projects, revised environmental 
assessment and mitigation procedures, an integrated approach to 
appraisal and supervision to take full account of all components 
of Sub-projects, whether financed by the proceeds of Sub-grants or 
otherwise, and improvements in the design, appraisal and 
supervision of rural water supply Sub-projects; and
(b) 
subject to the approval of the Association, proceed thereafter to revise 
the Operational Manual forthwith to provide for the introduction of the 
sustainability, and improved technical and economic appraisal, programs referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph. 
(a) 
For purposes of paragraph 6 (a) (i) of this Schedule, SFKC shall take 
appropriate institutional measures to implement the sustainability program referred to 
therein, including appointment of a sustainability adviser pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(b) of this paragraph, establishment of regional offices, as deemed appropriate, in 
accordance with paragraph 8 of this Schedule, establishment of a monitoring and 
post-handover unit of SFKC to track the operation and maintenance performance record 
of Sub-projects after completion, and deployment therein of staff trained in social 
analysis and community-based development.
(b) 
SFKC shall, not later than September 30, 1999, recruit, pursuant to 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, a sustainability adviser to advise SFKC on 
the design and implementation of the sustainability program referred to in paragraph 6 
of this Schedule, and assist in the establishment of the proposed monitoring and 
Page  7
post-handover unit of SFKC, the recruitment of the staff of the unit, and the 
preparation and implementation of training activities on their behalf. 
8.
SFKC shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, for review and comments, a proposal, 
together with a draft budget, for the establishment of regional offices of SFKC; and 
proceed thereafter to implement such proposal, taking into account such comments as 
the Association may have provided on such proposal and draft budget; 
9.
SFKC shall, not later than September 30, 1999, furnish to the Association, for 
its review and approval, a detailed strategy to target poor or otherwise under-served 
communities, using a poverty targeting map, based on the most current information on 
population, poverty levels and access to services, to determine priority areas in 
terms of allocation of resources, a revised ranking methodology, and adjustments to 
SFKC’s computerized Sub-project ranking system; and proceed thereafter to implement 
such strategy, taking into account such comments as the Association may have provided 
thereon.
10.
SFKC shall take steps to ensure that: 
(a)
each Sub-project appraised shall include a detailed analysis of any 
potential adverse environmental effects or resettlement of persons, as the case may 
be, arising from the implementation of said Sub-project; and, in the event of the 
existence of any such adverse environmental effects or resettlement, an environmental 
or resettlement action plan, as the case may be; 
(b)
an environmental or resettlement action plan, as the case may be, shall 
be carried out in a manner acceptable to the Association and monitored on a regular 
basis by SFKC, and, in the case of resettlement, shall be in accordance with the 
Guidelines for Resettlement and Compensation; 
(c)
all Affected Persons shall be rehabilitated and compensated prior to the 
commencement of execution of the corresponding Sub-projects, and in accordance with 
the Guidelines for Resettlement and Compensation; and 
(d)
adequate operational procedures shall be maintained at all times to 
enable both the Borrower and SFKC to monitor and evaluate, on a regular basis and 
based on indicators acceptable to the Association, the prompt carrying out of each of 
the foregoing.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-grant Agreements
Each Sub-grant Agreement shall include the following terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association: 
1.
Each Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency, as the case may be, 
shall be required to carry out and operate their corresponding Sub-project(s) with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound administrative, economic, 
engineering, financial, legal, managerial and environmental standards and practices.
2.
Each Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency, as the case may be, 
shall have the obligation to ensure at all times that: (a) goods, works and 
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) such 
goods, works and consultants' services shall be used exclusively for implementing 
Sub-projects and achieving the objectives of the Project; and (c) upon completion of 
the Sub-project(s), such Sub-project(s) shall be operated and maintained in accordance 
with the operation and maintenance plan agreed upon with SFKC. 
3.
SFKC shall ensure that each Sub-project is carried out in its entirety on public 
land, and that at all times the ownership of the goods, works and services under each 
Sub-project shall remain in the public domain or otherwise revert to the Borrower. 
4.
SFKC shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives 
of the Borrower or the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works and services included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof and any relevant 
records and documents, and obtain any report in connection therewith, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.
Each Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency shall take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other satisfactory provision for, 
Page  8
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate business practices. 
6.
SFKC shall have the right to obtain all such information as the Association 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, the administration, operations and 
financial condition of each Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency, and 
the benefits derived from the Sub-projects. 
7.
The right of any Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agency to the 
use of the proceeds of the Credit, or any part thereof, shall be promptly suspended 
upon failure by such Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency to perform 
any of its respective obligations under the Sub-grant Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references to "Participating 
Countries" and "Participating Country", respectively.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and works may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Page  9
Association, and specified in the Operational Manual. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
5.
Direct Contracting 
Small-scale works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,600,000 
equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured under contracts 
awarded after direct negotiations with contractors in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines and procedures acceptable to the Association; 
provided, however, that the total value of contracts awarded to any one contractor 
under the provisions of this paragraph shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph, to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and the first 
three contracts to be awarded under community participation or small works procurement 
procedures.
(b)
With respect to each of the three contracts to be awarded under community 
participation or small works procurement procedures, and referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under small works or other competitive procedures, SFKC 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of bids or quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under community 
participation or small works procurement procedures, SFKC shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  10
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references to "Participating 
Countries" and "Participating Country", respectively.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services involving consulting firms, and estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services involving consulting firms, and estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  11
