Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3179 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Fund Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  April 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3179-KH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 1999, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Social Fund of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia (SFKC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to SFKC the proceeds of the Credit on a non-reimbursable 
grant basis as provided in this Agreement; and 
(C)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and SFKC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
a new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
"Participating Country" means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and "Participating Countries" means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Administrative Manual" means the manual, dated September 20, 1995, 
adopted by SFKC setting out the financial and administrative procedures for the 
day-to-day operation and administration of SFKC, including its accounting, financial 
and auditing procedures; as same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Administrative Manual;
(b)
"Affected Person" means, individually, a person who, on account of the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, or any part thereof, has or would  have his 
or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in 
any house, land (including, but without limitation to, premises, agricultural land and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected, and 
the term "Affected Persons" means, collectively, more than one Affected Person; 
(c)
"Applicant" means any local community group or local public or private 
entity who shall have applied to SFKC for the financing and carrying out of a 
Sub-project, within any province of the Borrower, and who shall have entered into a 
Sub-grant Agreement, and the term "Applicants" means, collectively, more than one 
Applicant; 
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means any twelve-month period beginning on January 1 and 
ending on December 31; 
(e)
"Fund Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SFKC, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Guidelines for Resettlement and Compensation" means the guidelines for 
the resettlement and provision of compensation to Affected Persons, acceptable to the 
Association, adopted by the Borrower, and set forth in the Operational Manual, as such 
Guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association; 
(g)
"MEF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, or any 
successor thereto; 
(h)
"NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower's central bank or 
any successor thereto; 
(i)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization, and the term "NGOs" means, 
collectively, more than one NGO; 
(j)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, dated September 20, 1995, adopted 
by SFKC, setting out the operational and administrative procedures of SFKC in respect 
of the preparation, appraisal, processing, approval, financing, implementation and 
supervision of Sub-projects, including details of Sub-project eligibility, financing 
and appraisal criteria, as well as performance indicators, procurement, disbursement 
and supervision procedures; as same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Operational Manual;
Page  3
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement, dated 
May 26, 1998, signed by the Association, and countersigned by the Borrower on June 9, 
1998;
(l)
"Royal Decree" means the Borrower's Royal Decree No. RD/1294/20, dated 
December 29, 1994, as amended by the Borrower’s Royal Decree No. RD/0498/122, dated 
April 7, 1998, establishing SFKC as a separate autonomous public institution 
possessing independent juridical personality under the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations; 
(m)
"SFKC" means the Social Fund for the Kingdom of Cambodia, established by 
the Royal Decree as a separate autonomous public institution with independent social 
legal status, and possessing full juridical personality as well as administrative, 
managerial, technical and financial autonomy under the Borrower's laws and 
regulations; 
(n)
"Sponsor" means any legal entity or group of entities, including public 
ministries, local governments, community groups and NGOs, which are eligible to 
sponsor an Applicant before SFKC for a Sub-project, and the term "Sponsors" means, 
collectively, more than one Sponsor; 
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(p)
"Statutes" means the Statutes of SFKC in the form and substance annexed 
to the Royal Decree; 
(q)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made out of the proceeds 
of the Credit by the SFKC under a Sub-grant Agreement to finance the carrying out of 
the corresponding Sub-project, and the term "Sub-grants" means, collectively, more 
than one Sub-grant; 
(r)
"Sub-grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between SFKC, 
on the one hand, and an Applicant, together with a Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing 
Agency, as the case may be, on the other, in respect of a Sub-project to be financed 
by a Sub-grant; 
(s)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project under Part A of the 
Project, to be carried out by an Applicant, Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing 
Agency, as the case may be, using the proceeds of a Sub-grant, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; and 
(t)
"Sub-project Implementing Agency" means a duly qualified legal entity 
responsible for implementing a Sub-Project, and the term "Sub-project Implementing 
Agencies" means, collectively, more than one Sub-project Implementing Agency.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventeen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
17,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of an Applicant, 
Sponsor or Sub-project Implementing Agency, as the case may be, under a Sub-grant to 
meet the reasonable cost of eligible expenditures relating to a Sub-project, and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
separate special deposit account in NBC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2009 and ending February 15, 2039. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2019  shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  5
provided in paragraph (a) above. Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of 
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause SFKC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of SFKC therein set forth in respect of the Project, and 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds 
(including counterpart foreign exchange), facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SFKC to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the Credit 
available, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, to SFKC pursuant to a Fund Agreement to 
be entered into between the Borrower and SFKC, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include the terms and conditions 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Fund Agreement in such a 
manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of SFKC, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Fund Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall at all times take, or cause to be taken, any 
and all action necessary to ensure SFKC shall enter into cooperative arrangements with 
ministries and agencies of the Borrower, and with bilateral and multilateral donor 
agencies, to achieve the purposes and objectives of the Royal Decree and the Statutes. 
The Borrower shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such cooperative arrangements. 
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SFKC 
in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section, and those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Page  6
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Borrower or SFKC shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Fund Agreement, so as to affect materially and adversely the 
carrying out of the Project; 
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SFKC will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
 the Fund Agreement shall have been signed between the Borrower and SFKC 
and shall have entered into effect, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement and Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement; and 
(b) the Operational Manual and Administrative Manual shall have been revised 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, and the revised versions thereof shall have been duly approved by the 
Association, and adopted by SFKC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SFKC, and 
is legally binding upon SFKC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
the Fund Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and SFKC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SFKC in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  7
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
92nd Street, Sangkat Wat Phnom
Phnom Penh,  
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 CMPP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Sub-grants
   15,460,000
100% of amounts
of Sub-grants disbursed
(2)
Consultants’
    1,390,000
100%
services
(3)
Goods
      190,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
80% of local
expenditures 
(4)
Operating costs
      280,000
80% 
(5)
Works  
70,000
90% 
(6)
Refunding of
290,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
      220,000
TOTAL
   17,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs  
incurred under the Project by SFKC on account of (i) travel costs and allowances, (ii) 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iii) banking charges, and (iv) office rent, 
supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 hereinabove, no withdrawals shall 
be made:  
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
 in respect of a Sub-grant, unless the Sub-grant has been provided in 
accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to, in this Agreement and the Operational Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) civil 
works and consulting firms not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000; (b) goods and 
individual consultants not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000; and (c) training and 
operational costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
1.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its on-going efforts 
to alleviate poverty throughout its territory by inter alia: (a) financing social and 
economic infrastructure activities, and other socially and economically productive 
endeavors; (b) creating  sustainable employment opportunities; (c) expanding 
opportunities for local communities to identify and develop local infrastructure and 
related socio-economic needs; and (d) developing appropriate infrastructural design 
costing and investment criteria.
2.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sub-projects 
Financing of specific investment projects through provision of Sub-grants for 
Page  9
rehabilitating and developing social and economic infrastructure, including 
development of post conflict new settlement communities, and for other socially 
productive activities throughout the territory of the Borrower.
Part B:
Institutional Support to SFKC  
(1)
Supporting SFKC to strengthen its overall administrative, legal, managerial and 
operational capacities, as well as its ability to coordinate and monitor the overall 
implementation of the Project, through the provision of consultants’ services.
(2)
Strengthening the capacity of SFKC to, inter alia: (i) process, appraise, 
finance and supervise the implementation of Sub-projects; and (ii) carry out 
Applicant, Sponsor and Sub-project Implementing Agencies assessments, financial 
planning and management, procurement, disbursements and promotional activities, 
through the provision of consultants' services.
(3)
Strengthening the capacity of SFKC to establish cooperative operational 
arrangements with ministries and agencies of the Borrower and with bilateral and 
multilateral donor agencies, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
****** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project , as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Sub-grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
Page  10
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Terms and Conditions of the Fund Agreement
Page  11
The Fund Agreement shall be valid for a period of at least five (5) years, and 
shall include the following terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association: 
1.
The obligation of the Borrower to transfer the proceeds of the Credit, required 
for the implementation of the Project, to SFKC on a non-reimbursable grant basis, and 
otherwise to take all action necessary to permit SFKC to carry out the Project and 
ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the prompt provision of 
counterpart funds (including foreign exchange) required therefor. 
2.
The obligation of SFKC to promptly inform the Borrower of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
3.
The obligation of SFKC, at the request of the Borrower, to exchange views with 
the Borrower with regard to the progress of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, and SFKC's performance of its obligations under the Fund 
Agreement. 
4.
The obligation of SFKC to carry out the Project in accordance with this 
Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Fund Agreement, the Operational Manual and the 
Administrative Manual, and at all times to ensure that only Sub-projects that comply 
with the Fund Agreement and said manuals will be financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
5.
The obligation of the Borrower to ensure that its ministries and departments 
responsible for reviewing the Sub-projects shall provide their no-objection or reasons 
for objection, as the case may be, in respect of said Sub-projects within ten working 
days of receipt of the necessary documentation from SFKC.
6.
The mutual obligation of the Borrower and SFKC to take steps to ensure that: (a) 
in the event of the existence of any potential adverse environmental effects or 
resettlement of persons, as the case may be, arising from the implementation of any 
Sub-project, the environmental or resettlement action plan, as the case may be, shall 
be carried out in a manner acceptable to the Association and monitored on a regular 
basis by both the Borrower and SFKC, and, in the case of resettlement, shall be in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Resettlement and Compensation; (b) all Affected 
Persons shall be rehabilitated and compensated prior to the commencement of execution 
of the corresponding Sub-projects, and in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Resettlement and Compensation; and (c) adequate operational procedures shall be 
maintained at all times to enable both the Borrower and SFKC to monitor and evaluate, 
on a regular basis and based on indicators acceptable to the Association, the prompt 
carrying out of each of th
e foregoing. 
7.
The obligation of SFKC to promptly refund to the Borrower any proceeds from the 
Credit not used for purposes of carrying out the Project or for achieving the 
objectives thereof, or otherwise utilized in a manner which does not comply with the 
provisions of this Agreement or the Project Agreement. 
8.
A provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the provisions 
contained in the Fund Agreement, the Operational Manual or the Administrative Manual, 
on the one hand, and those set forth in this Agreement and the Project Agreement, on 
the other, the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement shall at all 
times prevail.
