Page  1
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
April 19, 1999
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
United States of America
Re:
Credit No. 3179-KH
      (Second Social Fund Project)
      Project Agreement (Schedule 3)
      Representations and Assurances on Procurement
Dear Sirs:
We are pleased to refer to the Project Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia and International Development Association 
for the above-mentioned Project and, more particularly, to Schedule 3  thereof, and to 
confirm, on behalf of SFKC, that, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the 
Association, the following rules shall apply in respect of contracts for goods  and 
works financed under the credit and procured according to national competitive bidding 
procedures, and contracts for consultants’ services financed under the credit,  
respectively.
Contracts for goods and works
Foreign suppliers and contractors from eligible countries shall, if they are 
interested, be allowed to participate without being required to associate or form  
joint ventures with local suppliers or contractors.
Prior registration shall not be a requirement to participate in bidding 
procedures; but it may be required in the case of a selected bidder as a condition of 
signing a contract.
Prequalification of contractors shall be required for competitive bidding in the 
case of large or complex works; in all other cases, prequalification shall only be 
required in justifiable cases and with the prior approval of the Association.
When prequalification is required, the evaluation methodology shall be based on 
pass/fail criteria relating to the firm's experience, technical, financial, physical 
and human resource capacities.
A public bid opening ceremony shall take place immediately after the deadline 
for presentation of bids, and without any intervening time lag,  and, during such 
public bid opening ceremony, bids shall be opened and read out in public, and in the 
presence of bidders' representatives who wish to attend.
In all cases, the award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive and 
complying bid and, except with the prior approval of the Association, no negotiations 
shall take place with any bidder prior to the award, even when all bids exceed the 
cost estimates.
Bidders, who disagree with arithmetic corrections made by the evaluating 
committee during the evaluation stage, shall not be allowed to withdraw their bids 
without forfeiting their bid security.
Contracts for Consultants’ Services
If negotiations with the selected consulting firm ranked first do not result in 
a contract, the owner shall terminate negotiations with that firm and immediately 
proceed to negotiate a contract with the second ranked firm.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, price may be used as a factor 
in the evaluation of consultancy proposals.
Page  2
It is our understanding that, in making the above Credit, the Association may 
rely on the statements herein set forth or referred to.
Very truly yours,
SOCIAL FUND OF THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Authorized Representative
