CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 810 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Feeder Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 28, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 810 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(hereinafter called the Borrower or Togo) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parv,ies to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble hereto have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "METP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
6quipement, travaux publics, construction, habitat et postes et
telcommunications.
(b) "DTP" means the Direction des Travaux Publics of METP.
(c) "MRW" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
amenagement rural.
(d) "DGR" means the Direction du Genie Rural of MRW.
(e) "FRU" means the feeder road unit to be established
within DGR pursuant to Section 3.01 (g) hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-2-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million eight hundred thousand dollars ($5,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1988 and ending May 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 1998 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
under the overall responsibility of MRW, with due diligence and


﻿-3-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, serv,ces and :r':er resources
required for the purpose; it being specified tl: the study
included in Part C of the Project shall be completed not later
than September 30, 1981 (or such other date as the Association may
agree).
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that arrangements satisfactory
to the Association shall be entered into between MRW and METP
whereby METP, acting through DTP, shall be entrusted with the
carrying out of the program under Part A of the Project with
respect to about 400 kms of feeder roads and with the maintenance
of the equipment purchased by DGR under the Project.
(c) The feeder roads to be improved and maintained under
Part A of the Project shall be selected by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(d) For the purpose of paragraph (c) of this Section, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its approval, the
proposed annual work programs for the improvement and maintenance
of feeder roads included in Part A of the Project to be carried
out in 1979 and each year thereafter until the completion of the
Project, promptly after each such proposed program has been
adopted by the interministerial technical working group referred
to in paragraph (e) below and not later than three months before
the scheduled start of the works to be undertaken pursuant to such
proposed program.
(e) In order to ensure effective coordination among the
ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower concerned
with feeder roads, the Borrower shall establish, not later than
February 28, 1979 or such other date as the Association may
agree, and thereafter maintain, an interministerial technical
working group composed of representatives of such ministries,
departments and agencies, including, inter alia, representatives
of METP, MRW, the Borrower's ministries responsible for rural
development, finance and planning and the Borrower's regional
and national agencies directly concerned with feeder roads.
(f) The interministerial technical working group to be
established pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section shall be
responsible, inter alia, for the review and adoption of the
proposed annual work programs for the improvement and maintenance


﻿-4-
of feeder roads under Part A of the Project, such programs to be
prepared by DGR.
(g) The Borrower shall establish within DGR, on or before
July 31, 1978 (or such other date as the Association may agree),
and, thereafter, maintain in   eration, a feeder road unit under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, such unit to
be responsible for selecting, planning and monitoring the Bor-
rower's feeder road construction, improvement and maintenance
program and for carrying out the program under Part A of the
Project with respect to about 600 kms of feeder roads.
(h) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the feeder roads included in the
Project shall be improved in accordance with the design standards
set forth in Schedule 4 hereto.
(i) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower undertakes to assi3n sufficiently qualified
and experienced personnel of DGR in adequate numbers to work on
the Project in cooperation with the experts and consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 hereof.
(j) The Borrower shall, on or before December 31, 1978 (or
such other date as the Association may agree), submit to the
Association for its review and comments the training program
included in Part B (a) of the Project and shall promptly implement
such program taking into account such comments.
(k) The Borrower shall, on or before June 30, 1979 (or such
other date as the Association may agree), carry out the study
included in Part D of the Project and submit to the Association
for its review and comments the recommendations set out in such
study and shall promptly take all appropriate action to implement
said recommendations taking into account such comments.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ on or before September 30,
1978 (or such other date as the Association may agree), experts
and consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards


﻿-5-
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when


﻿-6-
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, after such acquisition and promptly upon the Asso-
ciation's request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordaince with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of DGR and DTP, in respect of the
Project, and of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly establish within
FRU and, thereafter, maintain all facilities required to collect
and to record systematically and periodically such data as shall
be required to assess the technical, economic, social and finan-
cial aspects of the Borrower's feeder roads system and to monitor
and to plan the maintenance and extensions of such system.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause all roads
(including feeder roads) within the highway system of the Borrower
to be adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs
thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices; (b) cause all road maintenance equipment and workshops
of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices; and (c) provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Sections 12.01 (b) and 12.02 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the arrangements referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) hereof shall have been entered into as


﻿-7-
provided in such Section and the Association shall have been
furnished with a legal opinion showing that such arrangements are
binding upon all parties concerned.
Section 5.02. The date September 28, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie
B.P. 387
Lome
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFINANCES                       5286
Lome, Togo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Messanvi Kokou Kekeh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                   2,200,000        54%
(2) Equipment, Vehicles,          2,000,000       100% of foreigii
Supplies, Materials,                          expenditures
Spare Parts, Work-                            and 82% o lo--
shop Tools, Equip-                            cal expendi-
ment Hire for Train-                          tures
ing, Fuel and Lubri-
cants
(3) Technical Assis-                500,000       80%
tance for Part B
of the Project
and Study in-
cluded in Part C
of the Project
(4) Unallocated                   1,100,000
TOTAL         5,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory


﻿- 10 -
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under


﻿- 11 -
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Carrying out of a four-year program for the construc-
tion, improvement and maintenance of about 1,000 kms of
feeder roads (including culverts and bridges), and the
provision of equipment, spare parts, workshop tools,
materials, supplies, fuel and lubricants required for
the program, it being understood that METP, acting
through DTP, and MRW, acting through DGR, will be
responsible for the carrying out of such program with
respect to about 400 kms and 600 kms of said feeder
roads, respectively.
Part B:   (a) Establishment of FRU and execution of a training
program for the local personnel of DGR in the
fields of planning, implementing and monitoring
feeder road improvement and maintenance, with the
assistance of 77 man-months of consultant services.
(b) Improving the effectiveness of DTP road brigades,
through the provision of 10 man-months of technical
assistance.
Part C:   Study of a follow-up feeder road project, through
the provision of 4 man-months of technical assistance.
Part D:   Study of employment conditions in DTP, DGR and the
private sector for the purpose of identifying incentives
required to retain competent staff in DTP and DGR and of
making all appropriate recommendations necessary to put
into effect said incentives.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and TDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for equipment, supplies and materials will be
bulked to the extent possible so that they may attract foreign
bidders.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Equipment, supplies, materials, spare parts and workshop
tools may be procured on the basis of local procedures acceptable
to the Association, provided, however, that the estimated cost of
individual contracts for such goods is less than $50,000 equiva-
lent (including taxes) and the total cost thereof does not exceed
$400,000.
(b) Contracts for the civil works, which shall not be
carried out as provided in Part D of this Schedule, may be awarded
according to local procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Togo and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures referred to in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Togo if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Togo equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Togo.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall


﻿- 15 -
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Civil Works and Equipment for Training
1.   Civil works for the construction and improvement of the
feeders roads for which DGR is responsible will be carried out by
force account by DGR and civil works for the construction and
improvement of the feeder roads for which DTP is responsible will
be carried out pursuant to the arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; it being
specified that the foregoing provisions shall not apply to the
construction and improvement of the culverts and bridges appurten-
ant to said feeder roads.
2.   Equipment for training may be hired under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, governed by paragraphs A and B of this Schedule and
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations


﻿- 16 -
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and sich other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design Standard*
Designation                         Class I      Class II
Vehicles per Day         less than   20   more than 20
Clearing (m)                         10-12           7-8
Road Formation Width (m)             6.5             5
Gravelled Surface Width (m)**        5.5             4
Thickness of Gravel (cm)**          15              10
Drainage                           Lateral ditches,. culverts
and fords; bridges only
where the size of the
river or the volume of
traffic warrants it
*    Where any existing feeder road has standards which are
higher than those set forth in this Schedule, such road
shall be improved and maintained to such higher standards.
** Gravel treatment only as and when required.


